SwITzerland is bordered by Italy to the south, France to the west, Germany to the north, and Austria and Liechtenstein to the east
	SwIt FranGAL ALps
	Swiss cheese: LIte FrommAGe
	Swiss Watch. Watch has hands. Hand has 5 fingers
Italy shares land borders with France to the west; Switzerland & Austria to the north; Slovenia to the east; 2 enclaves of Vatican City and San Marino.
	6
	IFSAS
	Free SwASle
	It is the tenth-largest country in Europe by area, covering 301,340 km2 (116,350 sq mi),
	and the third-most populous member state of the European Union, with nearly 59 million inhabitants.
Metropolitan France shares borders with
	Belgium & Luxembourg to the north
	Germany to the northeast
	Switzerland to the east
	Italy and Monaco to the southeast
	Andorra and Spain to the south
	BeLGy SwIMAS
Monaco is a semi-enclave bordered by France to the north, east and west.
	Monaco is the second-smallest sovereign state in the world, after Vatican City.
	Its population of 38,423 in 2024 makes it the most densely populated sovereign state.
	Monaco has the world's shortest national coastline: 3.83 km
Andorra is bordered by France to the north and Spain to the south.
	Its capital and largest city is Andorra la Vella.
Peninsular Spain is bordered to the north by France, Andorra; to the east and south by Gibraltar; and to the west by Portugal.
	4
	Portuguese FAG
Luxembourg is bordered by Belgium to the west and north, Germany to the east, and France on the south.
	BFG
Belgium is bordered by the Netherlands to the north, Germany to the east, Luxembourg to the southeast, France to the south
	FANGL
	HoG LuF
Germany borders
	Denmark to the north,
	Poland and the Czech Republic to the east,
	Austria and Switzerland to the south,
	and France, Luxembourg, Belgium, and the Netherlands to the west.
	Dan PoaCh ASs FLaB
Greece borders Albania to the northwest, North Macedonia and Bulgaria to the north, and Turkey to the east.
	AMBulT
	Motto: Ελευθερία ή Θάνατος
		Elefthería í Thánatos
		(English: "Freedom or Death")
	Anthem: Ύμνος εις την Ελευθερίαν
		Ímnos is tin Eleftherían
		(English: "Hymn to Liberty")
Austria is bordered by
	Germany to the northwest, 
	the Czech Republic to the north,
	Slovakia to the northeast,
	Hungary to the east,
	Slovenia and Italy to the south,
	and Switzerland and Liechtenstein to the west.
	GaCh SloNG SlIt SwiLL
Poland is bordered by
	Lithuania and Russia[g] to the northeast,
	Belarus and Ukraine to the east,
	Slovakia and the Czech Republic to the south,
	and Germany to the west.
	GLiRe BeLu SloCh
Hungary is bordered by Slovakia to the north, Ukraine to the northeast, Romania to the east and southeast, Serbia to the south, Croatia and Slovenia to the southwest, and Austria to the west.
	SlURS CroSlA
Russia
	12 apostles (land borders)
	and extends across eleven time zones, sharing land borders with fourteen countries.
	the ninth-most populous country in the world.
	the largest country in the world by area
	Norway
	Finland
	Estonia
	Latvia
	Lithuania
	Poland
	Belarus
	Azerbaijan
	Kazakhstan
	China
	Mongolia
	North Korea
	NoFEstLa LiP BelAKaz ChiMonK
	zMaritime boundary Japan
	zMaritime boundary United States
Finland borders Sweden to the northwest, Norway to the north, and Russia to the east
	with the Gulf of Bothnia to the west and the Gulf of Finland to the south, opposite Estonia.
Slovenia borders Italy to the west, Austria to the north, Hungary to the northeast, Croatia to the south and southeast
	and a short coastline within the Adriatic Sea to the southwest, which is part of the Mediterranean Sea
	ItAHunC
Slovakia
	landlocked
	is bordered by Poland to the north, Ukraine to the east, Hungary to the south, Austria to the west, and the Czech Republic to the northwest.
	Poluk HunAustriaCh Because
	Poluk HunAustraCheck

Mn:
“Remember, remember the 5th of November” is more than just a catchy phrase—it’s a piece of living history. This rhyme refers to the infamous Gunpowder Plot of 1605
	Jamestown 1609/ 1620
"Big Elephants Can Always Understand Small Elephants"	Because
"I before E, except after C…"	705 not “weird” or “science”
"Please Excuse My Dear Aunt Sally"	Parentheses, Exponents, Multiplication, Division, Addition, Subtraction.
"My Very Educated Mother Just Served Us Nine Pizzas"	Mercury, Venus, Earth, Mars, Jupiter, Saturn, Uranus, Neptune, Pluto.
"EGBDF" – Every Good Boy Deserves Fudge
	FACE
"A.D. = Anno Domini, B.C. = Before Christ"
2DO:
Biologic clades
Anatomy
Defn of living
Geologic eras
Eng Kings
Dynasties

