The Netflix series 'La Palma' brings this scenario to life, showing a family on vacation as researchers discover signs of a volcanic eruption that could unleash a catastrophic wave.

Tommy Robinson 
Trafalgar Square

Categorically opposed
Error of category
Begging the Q
Rhetorical Q

CT can
EEG
MRI
Mass Spectroscopy

Inveigle

Tommy Robinson - Stephen Yaxley-Lennon
Tommy Gunn
meted out

Luncheon

Thomas Pyncheon?
Puncheons
	

 From the mysterious structures off India’s Gulf of Khambhat to the drowned forests of Doggerland, evidence suggests people once lived where now only fish swim. 
Sites like Çatalhöyük in Turkey and Jericho in the Levant became bustling centers of trade, art, and ritual.
In places like Göbekli Tepe in Turkey, people gathered to build astonishing stone monuments thousands of years before the pyramids. 
Machu Pichu?]

Floodplain

polygraph

Charter

Inundate
Undine

Synergy

injunction

Cascade
Inlet
Skiff
Silver Lining

Stymie

the powder pink, Wes Anderson-esque Mount Nelson Hotel

travelogue

tipple
magnate
mogul
tycoon

palindromes et al

Anna Pavlova
melba
isadora Duncan
Bojangles
Nureyev
barushnikov
Josephine baker

Getting tenure
Impecunious

the Big Hole diamond mine in Kimberley, where Rhodes founded the De Beers diamond company and ultimately came to control 90 per cent of the world diamond production
tarnish
quatrain?

quaint

proscribed
prescribe
abrogate
Prerogative

Glastonbury Festival
Isle of wight
Sweetwaters
Woodstock
Bethesda
Bafta
Coachella Festival
Lollapalooza
Kalamazoo
Chattenooga

Hezbollah is a Shia Islamist political, military and social organisation based in Lebanon. It was proscribed in its entirety by the UK Government in 2019.

I actually used the Latin at Natlib, helping catalogue late medieval manuscripts hand-written by Monks. We had to use a special dictionary to decipher the Latin shorthand/abbreviations they used.
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_medieval_abbreviations
https://www.amazon.com/Oxford-Handbook-Palaeography-OXFORD-HANDBOOKS/dp/0197689701
Archive
https://archive.org › details
Explore this image
Dictionary of medieval Latin from British sources
Mar 12, 2021 · Dictionary of medieval Latin from British sources by Latham, R. E. (Ronald Edward)
https://www.bing.com/search?q=medieval%20latin%20shorthand%20dictionary&qs=n&form=QBRE&sp=-1&lq=0&pq=medieval%20latin%20shorthand%20dictionar&sc=0-34&sk=&cvid=2C5F9213ED2A4294B17361B62D7127E3
https://www.nottingham.ac.uk/manuscriptsandspecialcollections/researchguidance/medievaldocuments/letterformsandabbreviations.aspx
https://guides.lib.uchicago.edu/c.php?g=813534&p=6266863
I run into Richard Rayner occasionally.

There are eight basic plots in storytelling, not seven: Overcoming the monster, rags to riches, the quest, voyage and return, comedy, tragedy, rebirth – and religious folk escape God's wrath by making a big boat.

The idea of lost lands beneath the sea has haunted human imagination for millennia. From Plato’s Atlantis to the stories of Lyonesse and Cantre’r Gwaelod, myths often echo the real experience of watching coastlines disappear beneath rising waters.
Hy Brasil

Allay

Santa Fe Trail
Oregon trail?

Revered by some as a freedom fighter and reviled by others as a fanatic, John Brown is one of the most polarizing figures in American history. Long before his famous 1859 raid on Harpers Ferry, Brown experienced a formative moment in his youth that would ignite an unyielding hatred of slavery and a personal vow to destroy it, even if it meant using force.

You Can Break More Rocks With Vinegar Than You Can With Honey

fluorescence
Eon

Polybius

Tranches

faltering

showcasing

Lin-Manuel Miranda applied to his blockbuster Alexander Hamilton is necessary. But to create a counter-narrative of America’s origin story that attacks white supremacy racial subordination,
Little Black Sambo
Lithograph
Carolyn Keene nancy drew

Integument

Cyan
Magenta
Maroon (pron)
turquoise
beige

James Baldwin
John Brown's body
Battle hymn of the republic
Shores of Tripoli

“trigger warning”

Aspirationalism
Growth fetish

Joel Chandler Harris to William Faulkner to Margaret Mitchell to the authors of the Nancy Drew 
Plethor
Nathaniel Hawthorne

tincture
NAACP
SPLC
ADL

Roald Dahl never considered any black roles for his famous story that were not right out of the Sambo tradition, British imperialism, or slavery. 
a Zip Coon figure
Rastus
Uncle Remus

retribution
Iceland volcano air traffic 200?
surplus

Fixture
frivolous
hallmarks
Watermark
Plimsol line

heyday

Hanno the navigator
Roman maps

the Heraclides
Heraclion
The Horatii
Scaevola

ineffable
insolent

Nearly 2,400 years ago, in ‘Timeus and Critias,’ Plato described an incredible island that the gods sunk in the ocean and the scientific community has been trying to identify. 
Solon

Henna
Khol?]

Pheidippides?]

Altimira
Lascaux

Remit

It girl
The new black
Twiggy
Mary Tyler More
black make y thin?

Ötzi the Iceman, the ancient glacier mummy found in the Alps who lived 5,300 years ago, had dark skin.
Before the Iceman, there was the Cheddar Man, discovered in Britain. Back in 2018, scientists sequenced the DNA extracted from this 10,000-year-old male.
The Cheddar Man was Britain’s oldest complete skeleton. The DNA analysis revealed that he too had dark-brown skin. However, unlike the Iceman, he had blue eyes.
bog bodies
ice bodies

admixture
Fossick

AM quiz: How many toes do cats have on their back paws

Georges Simenon
Pablo Neruda

Skedaddle

Plight
Slouch
Dredge
Gazette
Almanack
Collegiate
La Boheme
Vanity Fair
Olivia Benson
to allay suspicions
Alley
"casing the joint"
Ruse
dastardly

may serve as grist for this philosophical mill

When did oh driving become illegal
when did drugs become illegal

it behoved

schtick

miscreants

subterfuge

vaudeville
tin pan alley
broadway
west end

The Near east
South Asia

Depraved
Shirk

That old chestnut

For donkey's years

Aegis

Slow clap

Wn > ACL injury

Hyperion

Dr Martin Worthington of the University of Cambridge in his book Ea's Duplicity in the Gilgamesh Flood

Rolls Royce
Wexford Glass
Bris SAS germs

Vivisection

Ted Talk

A furrowed brow
Squint

geocaching
capture the flag

Foldable bike
Foldable wheel?

menagerie

duplicitous

Deadfall
Dead reckoning
Gemmell shot on the fly
flyball
flykick
koan
	tree fall in forest 7 no one hear
	ocean in bottle
	sound one hand clap
mandala

Stripling

tabernacle

Atiphon	

Telescopes
	Hubble
	Webb

Shell company
Holding company

It also serves as a cautionary tale for others in similar situations: it is all too easy to find yourself caught up in a situation with unintended legal consequences.

A Lister
Actor on loan
Richlister
Insider trading
Ron Brierly	
	Vulture Capital?

A company going public means?

Elon Reeve Musk

taking a fly ball to his skull during a Little League game

Incipient
Foundry

Hologram
Cloaking device
warp drive
Mind reading

Rafah border crossing between Egypt and Gaza

Cholesterol bs?
Calorie bs

Bubbles:
South sea
dot com
baseball card
tulip
AI?
NZ Housing

Great southern land theory. Fallacy. Needed to balance earth

Grift
Bilk
Rort
Racketeering

Mason Dixon Line
Lewis & Clarke
49th? parallel
Dixie

Paraclete
Parallax

Venture Capital
Angel investor

derision
scorn

abject failure

Department of Government Efficiency (DOGE)
FEMA
Hurricane Katrina
	USA vs Cuba

Rottenborough
Gerrymandering
Stumps
Hustings


Ultimatum

Stochasticity

prattles on about

soothing lies

perusal

Horns dilemma
Lemma

untenable
ticket tout/scalper

feign ignorance

pundit

"War Room" host Steve Bannon or the staff at Breitbart Media
White House advisor Peter Navarro

to shill for
To die for

"Scare quotes around 'pause,'

Backburner
Turbocharge
Afterburner

Bulwark

Never-Trumper

Always a good reason at the time.

naysayers

sepsis
thrombosis etymol

Strom Thurmond

https://theconversation.com/ai-can-guess-racial-categories-from-heart-scans-what-it-means-and-why-it-matters-254416?utm_source=www.aifire.co&utm_medium=newsletter&utm_campaign=ai-selfie-pic-a-doctor&_bhlid=b39217814e554aecc8b8fe3588f0fe535b3ad6c8
race is not a biological category. Modern genetics shows there is more variation within supposed racial groups than between them.
	Aggregations
		tallest vs shortest diff jap > diff tween japs n tongans
Race is a social construct, a set of categories invented by societies to classify people based on perceived physical traits and ancestry. These classifications don’t map cleanly onto biology, but they shape everything from lived experience to access to care.

BASE jump

Monterey

inveterate

an irredentist Palestinian terror state
the accord

pertinent

https://www.jpost.com/opinion/article-853428?dicbo=v2-tmcNtdv
Per the Vienna Convention on the Law of Treaties (1969), any treaty or treaty-like agreement is void if, at the time it was entered into, it conflicts with a “peremptory” rule of general international law. This means a rule accepted and recognized by the international community of states as one from which “no derogation is permitted.” Because the right of all sovereign states to maintain military forces essential to “self-defense” is precisely such a rule, Palestine, depending on the particular form of its institutionalized authority, could be within its rights to abrogate any prior arrangements to accept demilitarization.

THOMAS JEFFERSON, the third president of the United States, wrote insightfully about obligation and international law. While affirming that “Compacts between nation and nation are obligatory upon them by the same moral law which obliges individuals to observe their compacts...,” he also acknowledged that: “There are circumstances which sometimes excuse the nonperformance of contracts between man and man; so are there also between nation and nation.” Specifically, Jefferson continued, “...the law of self-preservation always overrules the law of obligation to others.”

what international law calls rebus sic stantibus, a “fundamental change of circumstances.”

In concept, any plan for Palestinian statehood would still be built on the long-moribund Oslo Accords: ill-founded agreements destroyed by persistent Arab violation

Even today, official maps of “Palestine” show a new jihadi state comprising all of the West Bank (Judea/Samaria), all of Gaza and all of the State of Israel. 

Back on September 1, 1993, Yasser Arafat affirmed that the Oslo Accords would remain an integral part of the PLO’s 1974 Phased Plan for Israel’s destruction: “The agreement will be a basis for an independent Palestinian State, in accordance with the Palestinian National Council Resolution issued in 1974.” This PNC Resolution calls for “the establishment of a national authority on any part of Palestinian soil from which Israel withdraws or is liberated.”

Later, on May 29, 1994, Rashid Abu Shbak, then senior PA security official, remarked straightforwardly: “The light which has shone over Gaza and Jericho will also reach the Negev and the Galilee.”

Both would intend a State of Palestine that is irredentist and violence-centered. To be sure, the egregious crimes of October 7, 2023, would remain a proud symbol of Palestinian “self-determination.”

Those who would still consider accepting Palestinian statehood in some form should recall the following: The Islamic world contains 50 states with more than one billion people. Islamic states comprise an area 672 times the size of Israel. Israel, together with Judea/Samaria, is less than half the size of San Bernardino County in California. The Sinai Desert, transferred by Israel to Egypt in the 1979 Treaty, is three times larger than the State of Israel. Israel is less than half the size of Lake Michigan.

This suggests, ipso facto, that any crime-based jihadi state would become a significant “force-multiplier” for Israel’s adversaries, both state and sub-state. In a worst-case but fully realistic scenario, the creation of “Palestine” would heighten the probability of a mass-casualty international war in the region. At some not-too-distant point in time, this could mean a no-holds-barred, unconventional conflict.

emeritus professor

As the ancients said: You are civilized only as long as you have a full belly. There is no army big enough to stop billions of hungry people.

LOUIS RENÉ BERES: His 12th and latest book is Surviving Amid Chaos: Israel’s Nuclear Strategy (Rowman & Littlefield, 2016; second edition, 2018).

2 Xtn Zinist. If so took part of USA. Would y accept a 2 state soln?
	Validity of Westphalian soln
	Suicidal mania. Islm & Jw. Samson, Masada, Maccabees, slave kill king o ne by wn

Guys, before you start to panic and trade your career in for what you believe to be AI-proof, let me tell you this to hopefully put you somewhat at ease. First, if you do some research, you will find that the CEO of Fiverr has a Bachelor of Laws in English and although he's been involved with some tech startups is more of a business strategist as opposed to an actual programmer/coder. 2. Most programmers who have already begun to use AI to assist them with coding already know that it's not perfect. Yes, it is a fantastic tool and can help speed up a lot of things. But if you have studied AI, you know that AI is deterministic and Binary. Yes, it can help complete tasks, even complex ones, but where it falls short is when you need it to work on complex functions that were not entirely developed on its own. In other words, if you have a block of code that performs function 1 and then have AI complete function 2 and then later decide that you need function 1 and function 2 to work together intricately with another block of code developed by AI or not, AI can provide results that are not what you want. You will have to prompt it what to do more than once, maybe even until you pull your hair out (source: I've lost hair over it). So do not panic. Sharpen your skills, you should always be learning something new anyway but I promise you AI will need you more than you know. Even if it's faster at tasks, the tasks are still determined by Humans. And the Humans are more complex than AI will ever be. If anything, you should be more worried about AGI than AI, look into that and you'll see what I mean.

Boston Dynamics robotics

Squalor
Squamous
Policy wonk
Boffin

I wrote “The AI Dividend” last year because of this inevitability. 

ELO score

Assume the posn
Prone cobra

doubling down

Jeffry Sachs

off-the-cuff

Fly my pretties
Release the hounds

Good to know it wasn't just me.
I was thinking I might use today's recording to help me sleep if I get insomnia.
But it might also give me nightmares.
 

uptick

Echelon
Archon
Epaulette

Windlass
Windfall

Blunder
Blunderbus

smedley butler
Rabbit hole

AI job apocalypse
AI Job threat Roman Empire Latifundia
AI Obesity. Feedback loop stale data. No artists no wild data

attrition

Jokes on you
Grand fromage

Be funny (in a sad way) if bad AI translations made their way into the live language, changing it slowly over time.

This isn’t a wake-up call. It’s a warning shot.
Work harder not smarter
wage labor

This guy is on some serious ai copium if he thinks all of this is coming within months.

engagement farming on Twitter 

But what’s Fiverrs business? Cheap, low quality, creative work. Graphics, copywriting, voice work, hold music, and the like.
Muzak
Elevator music
Nugent ted

Bs AI take jobs so reskill ppl

portentious

DF Islamist, Zionist
jihadist

DURESS

Palestinian refusal to reject the genocidal “Phased Plan” (Cairo) of June 1974 and the correlative Palestinian jihad to “liberate occupied Palestine” in increments

contrive

Pent up
portentous

underpin
bottom line
in the red/black

annihilationist

epic fail

Win/win
win lose
lose/lose

irremediable

abomination

the Dar al-Islam (the world of Islam).

Epub Zionism Today URI PILICHOWSKI

El Al Israeli airline?
More recently, El Al captured something many Israelis are feeling in a new ad featuring popular singer Hanan Ben-Ari. He performs a modern take on the hit song “Ach Ya Rab” from the classic 1964 film Sallah Shabati.
kippah

a knitted dock worker’s cap

“Melts in your mouth, not in your hands.”
“Just do it.”

Blinkist?

Like Russian President Vladimir Putin did earlier this year, when he intervened for the release of Russian-Israeli hostage Sasha Troufanov from Hamas captivity, US President Donald Trump has done the same for Alexander, who grew up in New Jersey and made aliyah at the age of 18, enlisting in the Golani Brigade. He was on base on October 7, 2023, and was kidnapped to Gaza.

Spin doctor
% journalists in
Yellow journo
Yellow bl
Green book
Green mile
Project blue book
Little green men
Grey alien

The hay-wain constable

Fleur de lis

succinctly

Pummel
Pomade

A Pew poll

Evil prefig @Xt Holy Roman Emperor?

4th industrial revolution
	1, 2, 3 = ?

Kowtow
Salaam
Debase

The swordsman and poet Cyrano de Bergerac.

Euop vs eng law
	Scot?

Medicaid

Flirtation culture

statute of limitations

waived

the ongoing trial of ex-surgeon Joel Le Scouarnec in France’s largest-ever child abuse case.

plaintiffs
Bailiff
Bailey
Wetershed
Groundwater
Aquifer
#Metoo movement

Battle of Trinidad and Tobago

Cessna 208

NZ predator free 2050

Demise
Wingsuit
Mullet

extraneous
spherules
meteroroid
Humanoid
Android

Gin trap
Bear trap

Backwater
	woods
Upstate

There is a heated debate about whether an asteroid impact or airburst 12,800 years ago triggered the Younger Dryas cooling event. 

portend

ambigram

BASE jumps—the acronym for “buildings, antennae, spans and earth”

brazenly
brazier

angst
Ennui

tabloids such as the National Enquirer, Sun etc

Whatever the volcanic culprit, its effects were dramatic. In a letter written in 538 CE, Roman statesman Cassiodorus wrote: "Men are alarmed, and naturally alarmed, at the extraordinary signs in the heavens, and ask with anxious hearts what events these may portend. The Sun, first of stars, seems to have lost his wonted light and appears of a bluish color.”
	Procopius, a Byzantine historian living in the Middle East at the time, also wrote of "dread" caused by a foggy eclipse of the Sun.

But our modern knowledge tells us the basic difference between an atom of lead and an atom of gold: the lead atom contains exactly three more protons.
Lead goLd

Fail army
Epic fail

Bullet train
Bionic

lagoon
jacuzzi
Lacuna

Sound  fjord

Crowdstrike fiasco 2024/5

Most images of analog watches online show 10 to 2. Cos nice v shape. So GenAI generates this in images

Cautionary tale

Build back better
Salve et coagula

La Tene
Hallstdat?]
Beaker culture
Clovis point culture
	obsidian sharpness
flint knapping
fool's fold
Lascaux
Alatmira

Opex budget easier to get approved than capex
stringent

Robust discussion

structural racism

Concierge

Cthonic
AI guess racial background?

the UN’s International Civil Aviation Organization (ICAO) has found Russia responsible for the 2014 downing of Malaysian Airlines Flight MH17 over eastern Ukraine, which killed all 298 people onboard.

US President Dwight D. Eisenhower, who famously believed that "What is important is seldom urgent, and what is urgent is seldom important."

palliative

Pallas Athene

Anneal

Subwoofer
Dolby

Movies:
My son hunter
Terror on the Prairie
Daughter of the Wolf (2019) - IMDb

C:\Users\john.newell\OneDrive - Datacom\Pictures\Screenshots

MN TAG:
Friday on my mind
Project bluebook
blue suede shoes
blue monday
the 4400 tv series
fox 100 20 C fox. Searchlight
020 417 02765
NOKIA #?
021 027 55145
Error 401
401K
Adam Rich, the former child actor best known for his role in the hit television series 'Eight Is Enough,' died on Jan. 7, 2023 at his home in Los Angeles at the age of 54.
Golden State
Golden apple Gk myth
Apple malus bad malus adam eve
the UFC 290 event in Las Vegas
15 minutes of fame
Friday Fishday
Xtn Fish
Xt Fish
52 LioN
Zodiac as mn tags
AS400
K2 mountain

403 Forbidden message
proposition 8
Top 40 sweet cheeks
87 crash
29 crash
11th hour
30 pc silver
Route 66
42nd st
42 life universe evth
23 jim carey movie
27 club Hendrix
10cc
Love potion no 9
Chanel no 9?
Vietnam 1
Summer of 69
10 guitars
Frisco 49ers clementine. 4give 7*70 times
Philly 86ers 76ers? cream cheese. 86 fup?
Agent 86.
Agent 99
007
75k mort by Esther?
10 downing s
1600 pensylvania?] ave
Fr PM/Pres address
	NZ PM
	Oz
Helen 1000 ships
110 hurdles
Fortune 500
20/20 vision
	20
	Y2020
Y2K
Error 401
007
10 Downing st
1600 Pensylvania ave
666
Route 66 kicks
Magnificent 7/samurai
Fortune 500

Octopus squid arms vs tentacles

Picaresque

Metaphor It's the canary in the coal mine
Canard

Scold

Lambasted

Trump, Putin, Netanyahu, Xi, Modi, Erdoğan, and others.
Buyer's remorse

Quintile
Stannine

Goal has sth measureable,I id it. Objective doesn't?

Atticus Finch, the hero of To Kill a Mockingbird

https://www.msn.com/en-nz/news/other/an-answer-to-the-brutality-of-the-trump-era-opinion/ar-AA1EyygW?ocid=entnewsntp&pc=HCTS&cvid=b18e10f95e894b509cbadf228f4f9305&ei=26
	It was during that two-year period when there were big moves, such as Francis’firing of Bishop Robert Strickland of Tyler, Texas—an icon of extremist MAGA Catholics—who defied Francis’ teachings. It was also during that time that Cardinal Raymond Burke was booted from his palatial Vatican apartment and sent packing. He was a Trump-supporting Covid denier who was making a fortune on the MAGA speaking circuit in the U.S.—and someone who also defied Francis’ reforms.
	It’s also noteworthy that Prevost chose Leo for his name, meant to signify his carrying on the work of Pope Leo XIII, who was known as the father of social justice. In his 1891 encyclical Rerum novarum, Pope Leo outlined the rights of workers to a fair wage, safety in the workplace, and the ability to form labor unions. Interestingly, the previous Pope Leo served from 1878 to 1903, during the entire presidency of Trump’s favorite president, William McKinley, the fanatic on tariffs who also emboldened big business to trample on workers.
	Provost also criticized Trump often in his first term, on issues such as gun violence and immigration. I believe Francis understood the need for a pope who is from this culture, who speaks English fluently, who spars in his own voice on social media, and who could sit down with American television interviewers and lay out the case against harsh policies and attacks on the marginalized.
	We don’t know a lot about Leo’s recent beliefs and positions on women in the church, LBGTQ rights and other issues. Like Francis himself, he showed some hostility to gay rights many years ago—almost 15 years ago, in fact—but like Francis, he likely evolved, like many other leaders.
	He recently remained open—though not fully committed—to Francis’s having allowed blessings of same-sex unions. And he has supported Francis’s commitment to “synodality”—diverse inclusiveness from grassroots lay people in the church—which the American conservatives in the church have fiercely opposed. My hunch is that Francis told him to keep his powder dry on the issue—as Francis did before he was pope—but we’ll know in time.
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Rerum_novarum
https://www.nytimes.com/2025/05/08/world/europe/name-leo-xiv-history.html
https://nypost.com/2025/05/08/us-news/new-pope-leo-xiv-spent-years-retweeting-criticism-of-trump-policies/
https://apnews.com/article/vatican-lgbtq-pope-bfa5b71fa79055626e362936e739d1d8
https://apnews.com/live/conclave-pope-catholic-church-updates-5-8-2025
https://www.nytimes.com/2023/11/28/world/europe/pope-francis-cardinal-burke-vatican.html
Cardinal Pell
Vigano

echo chambers

misinformation
	dis

unperturbed

Forbes

Privy to
Privy council
juggernaut

turnkey

acumen

Provost
Proctor
Dean
Chancellor

Bethesda
Bethel Woods

injunction

Venture capital
Angel investor

Sandringham

the 105 non-emergency number

Stem cells

notwithstanding

Marquess
Plesbiscite
Exceptionalism

Noosphere
Decry

magnate
Mogul

Sykes-Picot Agreement.
Balfour

pejorative
"Red Scare"
McCarthyism
the Cold War

an ischemic stroke
Known as tiankengs, or “heavenly pits,” these giant sinkholes are not new to geologists.

Charles Edward Stuart, better known as Bonnie Prince Charlie, who led an army of tartan-wearing rebels known as the Jacobites into England in 1745.

Tartan as a fabric appears to date to at least as early as Roman Britain. The triumphal arch of Volubilis, completed in 217 CE, once featured a bronze statue of Roman Emperor Caracalla; the only surviving fragment of the statue depicts a Caledonian Pictish slave wearing tartan trews. This statue was originally part of a triumphal arch in Volubilis, Morocco, a long stretch away from Scotland. To depict the unmistakable texture of a plaid tartan cloth, the statue was embossed with bronze and silver to create an analogous palette. We have only three feet (less than a meter) of the statue now, but it serves as a testament to one of the oldest known tartans.

The Black Watch regiment were made up of Clan Munro, Clan Fraser of Lovat, Clan Grant, and three companies from Clan Campbell and known as Am Freiceadan Dubh in Gaelic, or "The Black Watch," due to their unruly nature and the dark colors of their government-issued tartan. The original uniform was made up of a 12-yarn plaid of tartan, a red jacket, a black waistcoat, and a dark blue bonnet.

In 1822, King George IV attempted to demonstrate unity by appearing in full Highland dress during the Crown’s first visit to Scotland since before Culloden. But the event sowed the seeds of what critics would later derisively call “tartanry,” the excessive, kitschy use to represent an overly romanticized picture of the country.

The oldest tartans (not to be confused with Scottish tartans) are the Tarim Basin Tartans. These were discovered by Elizabeth Barber in 1993. They were found on mummies in Ürümchi, China. Strangely Caucasian in appearance, fragments of cloth on these mummies’ bodies showed an Indo-European origin similar to Neolithic clothing studied in Western Europe.
Sources: (National Geographic) (Oldest.org) (Historic UK)

John Stormer’s book “None Dare Call It Treason.” The Goldwater campaign had sent it to him, and its claim that the State Department was filled with communists intent on handing America over to the USSR had his friends buzzing.
Russell Kirk. He laid it out in his 1951 book The Conservative Mind: From Burke to Eliot, as I detail in The Hidden History of American Oligarchy.

the Arab Oil Embargoes of the 1970s had lit the flame of inflation

orders of magnitude
Golden ratio
moribund
scapegoats
Devolution
morbidly
Mortician

Politburo

The Reconquista was all about Christians conquering territory from Muslims in the Iberian Peninsula (Spain and Portugal). Its beginnings were marked by the victory of Don Pelayo of Asturias at Covadonga around 720 CE.

Perhaps the most infamous event of the time was the St. Bartholomew's Day Massacre of 1572, where a mob of Catholics attacked Huguenots.
The wars ended when Huguenot Henry III of Navarre became King Henry IV of France and converted to Catholicism.
In 1598, the 'Edict of Nantes' was issued, granting religious freedom and rights to Huguenots, marking the end of the 36-year-long conflict.

The Circassian War
©Getty Images
When the Russians' military strategy failed, they evicted the Caucasians from their homelands. In 1864, almost three million Muslim Adyghe, Ubykhs, and Abkhaz were sent to the Ottoman Empire on ships. Many of those sank.
The Taiping Rebellion
©Getty Images
This war against the Manchu imperial dynasty began in 1850 and lasted 14 years. It was instigated by a Chinese revolutionary named Hong Xiuquan.
Xiuquan established the Heavenly Kingdom of Great Harmony (Taiping Tianguo), but his rebellion was eventually defeated. It is estimated that around 20 million people died during the conflict.
Though religion was never banned, the USSR later targeted religious communities who were connected to the tsarist regime. It is estimated that around 30 million died in the Bolshevik Great Terror of 1936–1938.
But the Armenian Genocide was just one event in the Ottoman Empire's persecution of Christian communities between 1914 and 1923. It started in 1914 with the massacre of Assyrian Christian communities, followed by the Armenians. By 1918, over 600,000 Assyrians and 1.5 million Armenians had died.
The partition of India took place in 1947 and divided British India into the modern states of India and Pakistan.
South Sudan was born in 2011, out of a bloody conflict between the Christian and animist south and the Muslim north.
The Syrian Civil War began in 2011, following the Arab Spring of 2010. Syrian President Bashar Assad's opposition was composed of (among others) radical Islamists, including ISIS.

Brinksmanshp

beseeching
Cajole
rife
strafe

Genetically modified animals
Fish w antifreeze in blood

India-Middle East-Europe Economic Corridor (IMEC)
Petrodollar
Safa Iran Ru Sino block?
	Blexit?

GDP vs GNP. Useful?

Memento mori

"I think he knows what Rome is. Rome is the mob. Conjure magic for them and they'll be distracted. Take away their freedom and still they'll roar. The beating heart of Rome is not the marble of the Senate, it's the sand of the Coliseum. He'll bring them death—and they will love him for it."—Gracchus, Gladiator (2000).

Nero (emperor from 54 AD-68 AD) is famous for singing and playing the fiddle while much of Rome burned to the ground during the Great Fire of Rome.

It was later speculated that this account was false, and that it was propaganda created by the next emperor. One key piece of evidence: the fiddle wasn't invented yet. The story was probably invented by subsequent rulers as propaganda, to suggest at the opulence and decadence of emperors like Nero.

Let them eat cake

Despite what Hollywood movies may have led us to believe, gladiatorial fighting wasn’t the most popular form of entertainment—although it was likely still the most bloody and barbaric. Modern archaeologists estimate that the Colosseum could accommodate 50,000 people, which, for perspective, is just a bit less than the capacity of Yankee Stadium.

This means that the Colosseum was dwarfed by the Circus Maximus, where 250,000 Romans could gather to watch chariot racing. That's more than twice as large as the biggest soccer stadium in the world, Rungrado May Day Stadium in Pyongyang, North Korea. Perhaps one of the reasons why chariot races were attended in such large numbers is because it was one of the few sports where women were allowed to join the audience as spectators—guess that letting the other half of the population participate is a pretty easy way to double your ticket sales! 

As was the case in many ancient civilizations, most people weren't exactly just waiting out the years to retire at 65. Life expectancy in ancient Rome was only 20 to 30 years—but they didn’t all die young. The average life expectancy at the time was skewed by the large number of women who died giving birth, and by high infant mortality. If a Roman made it to maturity, they were likely to live as long as people in the modern Western world.

It may be one of the most well known, but the Roman Empire was not actually the largest empire in history. Concentrated as it was in a relatively small area (okay, maybe it doesn't look that small, but compared to most other continents, Europe is kind of eensy), at its peak, the Roman Empire comprised of five million square kilometers (1.93 million square miles), whereas the British Empire covered 35.5 million square kilometers (13.71 million square miles). That puts it at #25 on the list if we're measuring by land size.

If we're going by population size, the largest empire was the Achaemenid Empire, AKA the Persian Empire. In 480BC, at its peak, it accounted for 44% of the world's population, whereas Rome only ever got to around 20%. At its peak, the Roman Empire had between 50 and 90 million inhabitants. That's nothing to sneeze at!

The wars between the Romans and the Persians lasted about 721 years. This constitutes the longest conflict in human history. It wasn't barbaric frontline warfare 24/7 though—the frontier between the two sides was largely stable, and it was more of a prolonged stalemate than a series of escalating battles.

Emperors poisoned themselves a little bit every day. From the end of the first century AD, Roman emperors had adopted the daily habit of taking a small amount of every known poison in an attempt to gain immunity, a practice called “Mithridatism.”

Act leader David Seymour says New Zealand is at a “tipping point” between “two invisible tribes” within society - “change-makers” and the “majority for mediocrity”.

Kelp forests
Coral reefs
Atoll
Lagoon
Lacuna
Gobbet

Kevlar
Sorbethane
Smart materials
Plasteel
Titanium steel


Siri
Alexa

a whistlestop tour

touting
ticket scalping

Remediate

Prodigy
Struc/unstrict envmt
vs true believer

impending
Lurid
dissolute
recuperate
taxiing runway
discrepancy
bequest
inquest

succumbed

Mistral

Judge Jeffries
umbrage

Color blindness

In 1887, President Grover Cleveland and the U.S. government passed the Dawes Act. This law affected tribal lands everywhere and stripped Native Americans of their freedom and culture. 
The law was designed to “assimilate” Native Americans into white society, but it did anything but that. The Dawes Act resulted in the loss of over 90 million acres of Indian land, forcing many indigenous people onto reservations. Through this legislation, the United States government created a rank of second-class citizens.


As it stands, there are eight planets in the solar system and none of them harbour life. There are 891 Moons, and none of those harbour life either. In fact, astronomers can’t even truly agree where the solar system ends, as some say it's after the planets, others say after the Kuiper belt, others the heliosphere and more recently, the Oort Cloud. However, it seems that astronomers are searching for an elusive planet that may be hiding towards the edge – Planet Nine. So, what did they find? 

The new study has managed to shave down 13 candidates to just one. It's slow, and moves around our Sun approximately 46.5 billion to 65.1 billion miles away. For a little context, that is almost 20 times farther away from the sun than Pluto. Please note, Pluto is no longer a planet, but a dwarf planet and currently sits in the Kuiper Belt – which is a section of orbiting icy comets, objects and other dwarf planets past Neptune

Mountain to Muhammad

D Seymore Electrical Engineer
The irony of Seymours ministry picking this shit up (AI)

State of the Union/Nation address

In the 1800s, homesteaders in the western U.S. were enticed by the promise of substantial rewards under the Homestead Act. Pioneers who successfully cultivated 160 acres of land were granted what would amount to $800K in today's money. This government initiative aimed to populate and develop the Wild West, transforming vast, uncharted territories into thriving communities. The promise of land ownership attracted many, shaping the course of American history and the expansion of the west coast. 

Bass Reeves, a former enslaved person, became the first Black Deputy Marshal in the late 1800s, operating in what is now Oklahoma and Arkansas. Known for his relentless pursuit of justice, Reeves apprehended 3,000 outlaws, including his son, establishing a legacy as a formidable lawman in the Wild West. His career as a deputy marshal challenged the racial prejudices of the time, showcasing his extraordinary skills and dedication to law enforcement. 

Legalese
Purple prose

Aspirational

Jack Parsons Satanist Rocketeer

William Randolph Hearst
Metallicas secret tragic history


Olive Oatman
Cassius Dio
Corcyreans 

The inhabitants of ancient Rome had a sewer goddess (Cloacina), a toilet god (Crepitus, also the god of flatulence), and a god of excrement (Stercutius).


Boil
Broil
Coil
Doyle, Dail
Foil
Loyal
Moil
Oil
Roil
Royal
Soil
Toil
Uncoil


mewling
Mulling
Puling

Kumbaya

Etymol sibling

Piri Reis

Roman army 5'10?

Inveigle
Uzbeks sino terrorists?
Dunce cap

tallow-chandler

Retrograde

fastidiously
Interlocutor
Plaid

Brawn
Thews

-esque
esquire

debilitating

Conservative Party leader Pierre Poilievre was not only defeated in the April 28th Canadian election, but he also lost his Ottawa-area riding to a Liberal Party candidate.
rotten borough

Genetic bottlenecks often lead to the founder effect, where small, isolated populations diverge significantly from their original gene pool. As humans dispersed across the globe, our species experienced several bottlenecks, which triggered a serial-founder effect, contributing to the remarkable genetic diversity observed in the human race today.

Mount St. Helens erupted in 1980, releasing approximately 0.62 cubic miles (1 cubic kilometer) of rock; Vesuvius, in 79 CE, ejected approximately 1.86 cubic miles (3 cubic kilometers); and Tambora's 1815 eruption unleashed an extraordinary 40 cubic miles (80 cubic kilometers).


Washed up

Conflagration
Flagrant
Delicto Flagrante

Merchant marine
Merchant navy
privateer
Letters of marque
Chartered
Flags of Convenience

Masai slavers?

Archetype
Sublimation
Individuation

Luminous

Bodice

quintessential

Venal
Venous

Tartan spread at least somewhat out of the Highlands, but was not universally well received. The General Assembly of the Kirk of Scotland in 1575 prohibited the ministers and readers of the church (and their wives) from wearing tartan plaids and other "sumptuous" clothing.

Stem Cells

cochineal

municipal

Bullwhip

Spat
Bucket list

Vogue

Constructive dismissal

Security Information and Event Management (SIEM)

Names like “Dún Laoghaire” (fort of Laoghaire) and “Cill Dara” (church of the oak, today’s Kildare)
“Bally” (from “baile,” meaning town or settlement)
Names like “Knocknarea” (Cnoc na Riabh, hill of the stripes), “Glenveagh” (Gleann Bheatha, glen of life), and “Lough Neagh” (Loch nEachach, lake of Eachach)
When you hear “Drumlin,” think of rolling hills shaped by glaciers; “Curragh” tells of open plains ideal for grazing. Place names are nature’s diary, recording not just what is there now, but sometimes what has been lost—such as forests that once covered “Garran” (grove) or “Doire” (oak wood).
Words like “Lis” (fort), “Rath” (earthen ringfort), and “Cluain” (meadow) reveal how early settlers chose places to live, farm, and defend themselves.
names like “Kil” (from “cill,” meaning church), “Temple,” and “Abbey.” These names tell of early Christian missionaries, saints, and monastic settlements. “Kilkenny” (Cill Chainnigh, church of Canice) or “Killaloe” (Cill Dalua, church of Lua) recall the spread of Christianity and reveal where sacred sites once stood. Some names even preserve pagan echoes, like “Druim” (ridge) or “Magh” (plain)
Names such as “Tara” (Teamhair na Rí, hill of the kings) and “Boyne” (Bóinn, goddess’s river) sing of high kings, epic clashes, and heroic deeds. Some places recall tragic events—“Glencoe” (valley of weeping) or “Ballyslaughtery”—while others, like “Knocknagoshel” (hill of the cashel)
“Doire” (oak wood), “Garran” (grove), or “Móin” (bog) may signal places where forests or wetlands were once dominant. 
“Carraig” (rock), “Leac” (flagstone), and “Clogh” (stone) speak to the rocky outcrops, limestone pavements, and boulder-strewn fields that shape Ireland’s countryside. Names like “Poll” (hole) indicate caves or sinkholes, sometimes pointing to underground rivers or springs.
“Tobar” (well), “Sruthán” (stream), and “Abhainn” (river) highlight the importance of water to survival and settlement. “Bealach” (pass) and “Sliabh” (mountain) often describe wind-swept heights or sheltered valleys, places where weather shaped lives. In a land famed for its rain and mists, names like “Ballyrain” or “Drumcondra” (ridge of the confluence) remind us of how water has always been both a blessing and a challenge.

Summit meeting

haphazard
happenstance

Commercium

pentacle vs pentagram vs pentagon vs penthouse

What makes these cave paintings extraordinary isn’t just their beauty—it’s their age. Using uranium-thorium dating, researchers measured the calcite crusts over the artworks, revealing that some are over 20,000 years older than the oldest previously confirmed cave paintings in Europe.

Are neanderthals diff species to humans?

Until recently, the scientific consensus held that symbolic art originated in Europe about 40,000 years ago, tied to early modern humans.

Many modern birds are born naked and helpless, requiring extensive parental care. This trait, known as altriciality

“to-do lists are graveyards where important, but not urgent, tasks go to die.”
The calendar gives you control. The calendar can be proactively planned in advance with care given to high-value activities that transform you, your team, and your business. 
“Daily” to-do lists with no relationship to the clock practically say, “Please interrupt me!” They make you want to scratch things off rather than think.

Wayne Barnes referee

Vociferous
eclectic

Df Bandwidth

Phenology

Doggedly
Ghastly

Named after the Latin word for 'wood', the LignoSat satellite developed by Kyoto University and homebuilder Sumitomo Forestry is tasked to demonstrate the cosmic potential of the renewable material as humans explore living in space. Once deployed, LignoSat will stay in Earth's orbit for six months, with the electronic components onboard measuring how wood endures the extreme environment of space.

Pron: Grouper

Deplore
	Hilary Clnton

strutting and shimmying

WYSIWYG
	et al sly

Macus Aurelus
Aurelian?

famous restaurants in NY city, including Café Luxembourg, Nell’s, Lucky Strike, Pravda, Balthazar, Pastis, Schiller’s, Morandi, Minetta Tavern, Cherche Midi, and Augustine.

the Big Apple
busboy
Serendipity
Mayfair
mellowed
banquet
Leitmotif?]
belittle
singer Patti Smith
the Italian trattoria
photographer Robert Mapplethorpe
Oprah on jacko ne rp seduc
oyster shucker
Anna Wintour, the longtime editor-in-chief of Vogue.
Bistro
vaunted
brasserie

Excerpt

Clive James

Bait and switch

Stannine

the waitstaff
distaff
A-Lister
Actor on loan

'That doesn’t mean you morally support the Russian cause, or that you support the full-scale invasion, but you do have to try to understand what are their strategic red lines, in the same way that you have to try to understand what the Ukrainians are trying to get out of the conflict.' 

overbearing

1up CGITR Cleverest guy in he room

Field  staff officers
	Colonels lead coups
Loup Garrou
Graeme Alwright?]
Johhny Hallyday?]

Blight on the culture
Inculcate

The Onion
Babylon Bee
The daily show
Dunning–Kruger Times

Framework
Wireframing
Scaffolding

part and parcel of

dry sense of humour
Wet behind ears?
Wetnurse
Milch cow
Whiping boy
Eng Disease Flagellation, Rickets

Can't escape biases me ne means shouldn't try. Sly Thoreau stars nav reach.

austere
Austerity

BBC English
	Queen's/King's English
	Sly Fr, Ferman,Ru al?

Modern world std dialects of countries rather than pectrum n morph at border
Hinterland
Marches
Borderers

pro-developers and citizen developers
	Data sci
Open GIS?
Open Data
oData

Wrt
	Eggplant/ubergine purple
	Cucumber green
	Granny Smith
	Pear flesh
	Peach flesh

a workaround

Scott Ritter
Douglas McGregor

Roofie
Mickey finn

Academic open publishing

If you tolerate this one day your children will be next

etymol emir sultan caliph sheikh

"fish" is a term that doesn’t actually exist in the realm of scientific taxonomy

Opinon polls. Bs
	3% error?

Fraco
Salazar
et al

piecemeal
piecewise

Socialite

Carbon footprint
Carbon sink bs

1up
I stand corrected

Kick can down road
Bait and switch

Provost

Virulent
Economic mex standoff
Forewing
on the backfoot

Spatha

Etymal sward

But writing in The Atlantic last month, Eisgruber warned that the country was entering “the greatest threat to American universities since the Red Scare of the 1950s.”

task force
Think Tank

Pinkos

In 1995, the Independent Institute published The Diversity Myth: Multiculturalism and the Politics of Intolerance at Stanford, which Thiel co-authored along with fellow tech entrepreneur David O. Sacks, and with a foreword by the late Emory University historian Elizabeth Fox-Genovese.[200] The book is critical of political correctness and multiculturalism in higher education and alleges that it has diluted academic rigor. Thiel and Sacks' writings drew criticism from then-Stanford Provost Condoleezza Rice and then-Stanford President Gerhard Casper in describing Thiel and Sacks' view of Stanford as "a cartoon, not a description of our freshman curriculum",[201] and their commentary as "demagoguery, pure and simple".[202]

Title VI of the Civil Rights Act, which forbids discrimination at federally funded institutions.

St Augustine, Jerome et al RC?

2025 talleys v media court case

Rationale
Ratiocinate
Insider trading
Ron Brierly. Still a sir?

Has Bergmann's Rule actually been worng all along?
©Provided by The Daily Digest
Science has long held that the evolution of animal body sizes was influenced by the climate that they inhabited but this long-held scientific theory might be completely wrong according to researchers.

Coy

consulate

Grammar:
Speak to/with/about
who did y raise that to/with
et al

Vaporware
Bloatware
Wetware

Jk
My linkedin stalking reavealed hat


Martha Stewart

Case study

Roman sold drunk on duty penalty?

Chicanos

Whippersnaper

Web 3.0

IMG
Give war a chance
The bad shepherd

gung-ho
Fly in the ointment
unguent
ungealed?

Shah Iran Muslim? Altar at wedding?

harrowing
harrying
arrogate
harrogate


drawled

etymol tantrum
delirious
bedridden
Lore

bickered

An about-face
Martinet
Marionette

Aflutter with
Aforementioned
Wherefore
Heretofore
Theretofore?

nuptials
Etymol Shah

betrothal
plight troth

dysfunctional
rampant
Dystopian
Disestablishmentarianism
Discombobulate

googly-eyed
gobsmacked
begorrah

trepidation
intrepid
interregnum
regency

Ambulance bottom of cliff. Ctr

attest
detest
contest
intestate
testament
testimony

movers and shakers
embroiled
Quakers
Shakers

a notoriously Teutonic, brusque manner
coupled with a

predicament
predilection

point-blank
impasse

perfidious
Machiavellian
lewd
regaling
trifled with
stoking
gut-wrenching

Luxury
deluxe
Classical df
classic df
aides
Cut and dried
acrimonious
Lavish
Starlet
Snagged
Snaggle
ingénue
dynamo
rebound
bereft
Stalled
penthouse
Pentagon
Star-Crossed
Unrequited
Scandal
Recluse
Despondent
eerier
eyrie

Aloysius
Amadeus Movie bs

Request
Quest
Quizzical
Quiz
Inquest
Glamour
Geas

Sly: ?:
Iran
Beirut
Buenos Aires?]
Paris

Haifa
Hebron

Salome
Jezebel
Delilah
Rahab
Lot's wife. name?
Pilate's wife?

perfunctory

% sieges won by:
Storm
	Mining/breach
Starvation/Disease
Guile/treachery

Hetman

List famous magicians:
Stage magicians
Historical
Myth & Legend
Fictional

Defence in depth
Force multiplier
	Farce

Allopecia

Shambolic

But using the words of Grok-3 as our guide: "aim to dodge the shit and hit the gold.
Still feels like following General Melchett over the top into the enemy machine guns.

Mn Tag:
A OK, A frame ladder, hay, Alpha Omega, AB's All Blacks
B beta test, bee, Bea, Linear B, Mr Bean
C sea, pass, C S Lewis, 10CC
D Day, D Cup, D Defence, Delta
E Street band, Eta?
F Word, Heff (Playboy)
G String, G7, G K Chesterton, Warren G, Golly G, Gram, Gamma
H goal posts, H P Lovecraft, H Block, H G Wells, Tie Fighter
I Eye, Aye aye, Sir, dot, INRI
J silent bob, J Leno, J walking, J turn
K bar, ration, Sir Kay, Kay San Vietnam?, Kappa
L Macpherson, Elephant, Lb Pound?, Lambda
MnM's, Eminem, Golden M Macdonalds, Meter
N for No, hen, Enter, Nu (new)
O Ring, Owe, O Henry, Offense
P pee, pea, P Diddy, Mind y ps n qs, Sweet Pea, Pi (Pie)
Q Tip, Question, Q Tips, Bacteria, on the QT, queue line ppl or ponytail
R arr pirate, R 18, R L Stine, R E Howard, Arnold, R looks like robot w 2 legs, Rho (Row)
S bend, Truman, Sir Hiss, Sigma
T bone, Booker T, Mr T, Tea, Model T Ford, Time, Tau
U Turn, Ewe, U Boat, UB40
V Dub, V Rocket, V for Vendetta, Victory, Uncle V, Fee fie fo fum
W Double, G bush
X Ray, X Wing, X Men, Axis horiz, Cross, Axe, Lictor, Xmas
Y Shaped coffin, axis vertical, siege anti ladder tool, Slingshot
ZZ Top, Sleep, German 4 the, Zorro
--------
internet domain name Country codes
A/B Test
Chirho transliterates to?
Xtn Fish symbol/Greek letters
Blink 182
-----------------------------------------------------
World War Z
Hang 10, Tent, Tender
Zodiac boat
Zero Jap fighter
Ground Zero
Royal Purple
Black Prince
William of Orange
phone country codes
Red pilled

Opulence
whimsical

Prettifying

Colocate
Locate
Locative
Allocate
Relocate

Rococo?
Baroque
Neoclassical

Plenty ppl went to usa n failed
Go west slang

whimsies
Lladro

Bouffant
Bangs
Pompadour
Coiffed

Google Brain Co-Founder Andrew Ng

Reprise

P. James Oliver's book Mansa Musa and the Empire of Mali

Revisionist historians, like Ivan Van Sertima and Gaoussou Diawara, have been trying to piece together evidence that would support the controversial hypothesis that Africans beat the Europeans to the Americas. Ivan Van Sertima’s thesis, They Came Before Columbus, cited stories told by oral historians called Griots. They claimed that Abu Bakr set off across the Atlantic in 1311. He supposedly passed the throne to Kankou Moussa, who eventually became Mansa Musa.

Nostromo
Dicastery

putative
impute
Deputy
Puny
impecunious

Jubilee year bible
Gates, Rothschilds, and Rockefellers

According to some scholars, the ancient Egyptians attempted to revive the "Myth of the Solar Eye" through this potion.
	It remains to be seen what other mysterious artifacts historians will unravel in the future. In the myth, Bes was able to calm the sky goddess Hathor while she was in a bloodthirsty mood.

Pullet
Bantam

In His instructions to the Israelite in Deu. chap. 9 to cross over the Jordan, God told them that He was giving these lands to them because of the promises to their fathers – Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob – and because of the wickedness of the people of the lands; not for their righteousness, but because of the wickedness of these people.   Their entry into the “promised land” was a simultaneous judgment upon the wicked people of those lands.

“nephilim” is from the root word “nephal,” meaning he fell.

afflictions

Different diferentiate

Sublimate
Individuate

Software Fortress

Protectionist
Interest Group

House Republicans
Congress Etymol

Marquee
Barking the wrong tree

YYUR
YYUB
ICUR
YY4Me

Equine quadruped t al

in the mean time
itchy trigger finger
Mosey on down
Oswald Mosely

Tyranny of distance

W H Mencken?

Ziegfield Follies
Moulin Rouge

Tumbril
Turnstile
Turnpike
Freeway
Tollgate

1up
Sitn/request makes no sense
Is this April Fools, candid Camera, punkd?,Stress interview?

Blandishment

Madame de Pompadour
Soraya (2003 TV Movie)
Dandridge
TV the poo files
mp3 Dr Bombay
Frank bennet
Dirty deeds parody
Weird Al
albert camus
Flan O'brien
Franz Kafka

Coerce
Coopt
Codependent

endemic
etymol tantrum
shirk
finishing school
Preppie

Chuckle
Chortle
Jape
Jest
Titter

Phosgene

Garmin and/or avalanche beacons

Despot

Gilded age
Edith Wharton
Remains of the day
Amh Lee
UK Jap novelist?

Angel investor
USA Thanksgiving
Hist of Halloween

Lanky

World Economic Forum

Generals that rely on wonder weapons lose?

Rand Paul
Truman Capote

Colossal Biosciences, the company behind so-called "de-extinction tech,"
	Dire wolves: the three specimens, Romulus, Remus, and Khaleesi.
	"All you can do now is make something look superficially like something else," not fully revive extinct species, said Vincent Lynch, a biologist at the University of Buffalo in the US, who was not involved in the research.
	To truly de-extinct something, you would have to clone it. The problem is we can't clone extinct animals because the DNA is not well enough preserved.
	"To truly de-extinct something, you would have to clone it. The problem is we can't clone extinct animals because the DNA is not well enough preserved. Even if you sequence the genome, you can't extract DNA from extinct animals in long enough chunks like you could with a living animal," he said in a statement.
	Then the scientists took blood cells from a living grey wolf and used CRISPR technology (short for "clustered regularly interspaced short palindromic repeats") to genetically modify them in 20 different sites, said Colossal's chief scientist Beth Shapiro.
	"So what Colossal Biosciences have produced is a grey wolf with dire wolf-like characteristics – this is not a de-extincted dire wolf, rather it’s a 'hybrid,'" Rawlence said.
	"Whatever ecological function the dire wolf performed before it went extinct, it can't perform those functions" on today's existing landscapes, Lynch added.

Manicure
Pedicure
Topiary
Topaz
Mn Tag Birthstones/jubilees/zoiac/enneagram
Toupe
It echoes "Nightbitch" - Amy Adams's descent into the quiet madness of domestic life - the same themes of women simmering in boredom, choking on the sterile routines they've been sold.

What could've been sharp and unsettling buckles under the weight of its own ambition. The twist - if you can call it that - lands with a thud. Not clever. 

To rework an old quote: The hand that (rocks the cradle counts) the beans rules the world.

Dcom
If army
70% spec ops
Success ne based on win battle
But by generating favorable news stories

“first buddy” Elon Musk
Assail
Wassail
Ahoy
Westward ho!
18C novelist shipping koldge obsession

Even before Trump announced his “Liberation Day” tariffs that have erased trillions of dollars of wealth from the stock market and prompted economists to sound the alarm of a coming recession
	non existent wealth
financial engineering economy > al one
Black market
Black economy
Grey?
Brown?

reciprocal

The Bottom Line

"The fallacy is this: that somehow in a trade, someone must lose, that somehow when you trade with someone, there's a loser and someone's taking advantage of you, and China's ripping you off or Japan's ripping you off,” he said, characterizing Trump’s view.

Goitre. Iodine
Rickets

Whiteout snowstorm
Brownout shitstorm

Boy math
Girl math
Memes
Memetics

Big 4 accounting

At swim 2 birds
Thibaults

Mommsen
Von Clausowitz

Ballad of Lucy Jordan bs
Marianne Faithful
Arseling

Yorkshire wolds dales
fens
cars
firth of forth
Bristol channel tidal bore
Amazon wave
coswolds
lake district
grampians

Y can't uncrap  turd
toothpaste ack in he tube

Weasel wds
Yellow journo

Echelon

montage
collage
collagen

chess player, with a Blitz rating of 800

If wasn't 4 last min nth get done
If not 4 odd cckup no one born

Kinesiology

Pronto

Feckless
Toady

Salamander

Everglades
Arcadia
Arcadian
Arcady

Endemic

LSAT

Moderator

Buffoonology

Lechery
Lascivious
Effrontery
Prurience

Cycladic

Coronado explorer
Vanderbuilt

Epubs Guinness ks ords
ripley believe it or not
Thats incredible

Bailiff
Bailey

Stalwart

Buster Keaton

Dyson sphere
Vandergraaf generator
Plasma sphere
df plasma
etymol plasma plastic
How plastic made
Folder how it's made
Mafeking
Badon plowell

Lex JQC

The Hope Diamond
et al

reprimand

The Drake eqn

Crowing in delight
cawing
don't bleat at me

Tirade
Tyrne
Stalwart

AI Obesity

Rainn Wilson, best known for playing the socially-inept yet hilarious character of Dwight Schrute in The Office.

Forbidding
Funereal
Whirligig

repertoire
repertory theatre
Pankreton
arathon Pheidippides?] myth
Myth vs legend

allure
Velour

Endothermy in sharks

Shark tank
Dragon's den

Honor among thieves

Brim
Brimming
Brimmer
Brig
Brigadoon
Briganting
Cog
Barque
	St Peter
Ship of fools
	Party pooper
Ambulance bottom cliff
Wingsuit
Jetpack

Albeit
Sobeit
Therein
Wherein
Herein
Heretofore
Herefore?
Therefore
Wherefore
Forthwith
Therewith
Herewith
Wherewithal
Forthwith
Henceforth
Name of these kind of wds?
Whence

Whistleblowing

Disambiguate
Embrace ambiguity

Mn tag 13 stars Confederate flag

J'Accuse. Zola. Dreyfus?]

Loft Apartment?]

Restructuring ppl stressed. Lex makes it take ages. Ev1 looks 4 wk. Good ppl get offers. Ne assume rational. Game theory.

FIFO First in first out. LIFO Last
Stack
Queue

Golem of Warsaw

Belatedly
Bellfry
Bellweather state. If whoever/whomsoever wins there wins national election
slash and burn approach

Phrase: Go pound sand
Brewsters phrase fable

Foibles

The Aboriginal people, Australia’s first inhabitants, lived in harmony with their environment. They were deeply connected to the land, which they regarded as a living entity. 
Rousseau
	Prv?
Voltaire

stagnate

Trifecta
Quinella

finesse

US Treasury Bills, also know as T-Bills. 
T-Bills are short-term debt obligations that are considered low risk, so they may bring in lower returns than other kinds of investments. 

Doom scroll

G20

Bring to heel
patent leather

Leaders born or made?

rampant
rambunctious

Bellweather
	Hamilton. If goes labor lab wins election
Stalky & co

Cabal

Roadster
Roadstead
Homestead
Steadfast
Holdfast

Ancient batteries?

SpaceX
Neuralink
Starlink
Tesla
Paypal

Cornerstone

headwinds

Tosca

Pretty nervous about putting heads above parapet
Showcased

Art of the
	Deal
	Possible

Whatever floats y boat

bull run
bear

401(k)

Pandora

heyday
Halcyon

A shill/shilling for the oil industry
A shilling
Shilly shallying
Harrying
Harrier
Inimical

codependent relationship

Hokusai painter
painter, part of Boat?
Viscous
Vicious circle

The brave little tailor
tomb thumb
thumbellina

tumbleweed

equity (Finance)

onerous rentier fees 

Embargo

Hence
Thence
Whence
Askance

Though an H-frame with broad shoulders and hips with a thick waist, the kind of build perfect for powerlifting more so than bodybuilding, she simply gave herself a V-shape by building incredibly massive latissimus dorsi muscles and huge deltoids.

Merseyside Ferry cross the Mersey song mn tag

admonishing

Luddite
Richard owen
Wilfred owen

EPUB: Death, Drugs, and Muscle: Surviving the Steroid Underworld, bodybuilder Gregg Valentino

Gerard Manly Hopkins
Wicca?

effigy

charlatan

Ziegfeld follies
Moulin Rouge
Eleanor Aquitaine

deportment
Governess
Au Pair
Nanny
Mary Poppins

spendthrift

emblematic

smothering

stratagems

waited with bated breath 

Hiding in plan sight

If chased go up

Falstaff

Kick the tyre

Econ mj
	y f it up
		ne panic/down. What did i earn

square peg in a round hole.
dark night of the soul.

catamount
cantaloupe

Name Babylon forcefed swamp insect meal torture

Horsepower
Knots
Klik
Parsec
Nautical mile

Redoubled
Doublet
Oubliette

Caldera
Lahar
Crevasse
Sound
Fjord

Moraine

1p
opus
jk
(Is) that('s) how we pay for all the ppl (semi-live weight) at the top of the inverted pyramid(?)

Skin in the game

Art of the possible

1up
Not in this universe
Doesn't work like that in this universe

Dross

Trying to baseline all of that

Does anyone want to speak to that?

Blast radius of a security incident

Rogaining is an orienteering sport of long distance cross-country navigation. In a rogaine, teams of two to five people choose which checkpoints to visit within a time limit with the intent of maximizing their score. The sport involves both route planning and navigation between checkpoints using a variety of map types.

Self
stand y ground w bosses
stress test interview
eg airline pilot

Lo and behold

Touch base with

Vaporware

H5N1, the bird flu, the avian influenza that's been spreading around the world since 2020, but particularly in the Americas where it has mutated to be able to spread between mammals.

Wet market

Naturopathy
Homeopathy
	Mitchell & webb
		We th bad guys
	Hale & Pace rappers
	Alas smith jones deep end heart surgery
	Fry n Lawrie
	Morcambe wise
	Dean Martin Jerry Lewis
	Oxford revue?	spartans sly rowing crew. Hx?
Iridology
Surrealism

Bears the brunt
French Letter
wrest

Hollywood A-lister

1up
delib ne makes sense in argmt 2 throw tr
ctr
1. Be onto it quickly
2. Canned responses

Doctrine
Dogma

the US Pituffik military space base in northern Greenland.

rejected X’s overtures

unsolicited visit to

Etimol ampi-theatre

There's  interim where can..

Fluctuate
Flux
Fluxion newton. Dot notation
Plex

Loss Leader

Bruno code refactor cycle sly daily work. dirty hands, tidy docn

sound hesitant

Large animals often have fewer offspring and longer gestation periods, making population recovery slow.
volume to surface ratio. Heat
Bone density to tensile str
heartbeats over lifetime

Be mindful
That's what my understanding is
Alright, moving on

Disruptions in oceanic circulation. Currents

Snake oil salesman
Ophidean unction/unguent purveyor/chandler/colporteur/arbitrageur/vendor
Ophidean unction purveyor

Ivan moneybags
The terrible
Philip the good
John Lackland
The great
The magnificent
et al

TBC To Be C?

Insinuate

Eid al-Fitr
Diwali
Sagwali?

Rubric

Salon
Parlour
Drawing room
Sitting room
Smoking Jacket
Gentlemen's Club
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
The ending of “Uncle Vanya,” a theatrical oil painting of human endurance, is exquisitely executed.

From Los Angeles Times
The dressing — if you can even call it that — is a luxurious mix of Kewpie mayo, white vinegar, lemon zest, olive oil and more dill.

From Salon
Roasted grapes — cooked with olive oil and garlic — turn savory in a way that completely defies their sweetness.
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
ale
amber brew
barley pop
brew
brewski
brown bottle
chill
cold coffee
cold one
hops
lager
malt
malt liquor
oil
stout
suds
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Allay ones fears

Serpent
Viper
Ophidean
Judea and Samaria.

LiDAR tech

oleaginous, saponaceous, Effusive

jk
Or are you talking about the wetware, instead of the software.
An immovable object meets an unstoppable farce.

Tapestry. Famous. Bayeux, et al?

Pomade
pièce de resistance
refinery

Rorschash blot test
Inkblot
Quill

somewhat
Wherefore
Therefore
Herefore?
Heretofore
Forthwith
Wherewithal

High time
	noon

wetware

blockade
bridge loan
Payload
Warhead
Bridgehead
Brideshead revisited
Bridgerton

preoccupied

Fodder
fecund

fraught

triage etymol
veiled threat
Iron fist velvet glove
Kid gloves
Histrionics
Belladonna
Prima Donna

Sorry to Break it to You, the Dragons in 'House of the Dragon' Are Actually Wyverns

Let's break it down
Downton Abbey
Upstairs Downstairs

seemingly

Legally obliged
Noblesse oblige
Oubliette

Xennial

Squamous
Squib
Squall

Carter
Butler
Ostler
Sutler

Outset
demarcation

Rabelais

Skin n the game. Etymol

SME

Be the squeaky wheel
Go sqeaky when on them
De Sade
Mr Masschist
Metternicht hx commie soc
Joan Arc R? 600 killer
Elizabeth Bathory
Salome
Lombard king capt enemy kill mrry daughter make drink from skull
vampire, werewolf et al based on hist serial killers
Bluebeard
Cagliostro
Mesmer
Kinsey
Masters Johnson
Dr Ruth
La Vey
Crowley
Albert Pike
Blavatsky
Golden Dawn
Rosicruian
Illuminati
Freemasons
Thule Soc

Secreted
Ransomware

kept for posterity

Rescind
Rescension?

Buoy
Verge berm
leftenant
route
Roughneck
Roustabout
Leatherneck
Abalone paua
porphyry

"The migration from South Africa to New Zealand is always interesting, and there's always those push factors which tends to be what's happening politically and issues such as crime. And then of course the pull factors ... there's already large South African population in New Zealand, quite a few of them have got family members here," he said.

Migration stats patterns. Ppl go from same town to same town

Tropical and subtropical waters

dwindle
dawdle
dowel
doily

Rectilinear

prowess

Opus
Consultese
Probably more across it than myself
Sequencing multiple data mart & reports. All Marts 1st?
Tirade

satiating

dampen his mood

tentative

recession rich invest in commodities

Malleable
Malleus hammer
Tryptophan Turkey

sentence commuted
contempt of court

faced with a stark choice

vitriol

Reciprocate
ratio

He told the court that the story put forward by both defendants ran in “lock step” with each other

Aras an Uachtarain (the president’s official residence in Dublin).

mandate
manifest

travesty

it’s high time
high noon

Sugar intake is not the only factor that contributes to weight loss, so this also depends on other aspects of your diet and lifestyle. Sugar itself does not directly lead to weight gain, but it does impact the hormones in the body that help us maintain a healthy weight.


Scientists believe that a phenomenon known as induction whereby a current is formed through electromagnetic force that is generated by other high-voltage transmission lines running close by.

rhetorical question
recuse
rort

REM (rapid eye movement) and SWS (slow wave sleep)

Nurdles are the tiny building blocks of the plastic industry. The small pellets of plastic - measuring between 1-5mm in size - are melted down and reformed to make the many items in our lives, from bottles to computers.
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Musk:
My companies make great products that people love and I’ve never physically hurt anyone.
So why the hate and violence against me?
"Because I am a deadly threat to the woke mind parasite and the humans it controls,"

The left cannot name one thing they hate Elon Musk for. They cannot name one thing the has taken away from them. Or one thing he has done to earn their insane ire. 

History will study this deranged cult like behavior.
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
I say this all the time: The future is analog.
Swap smartphones for dumbphones. Trade Google Maps for paper ones. Host game nights, not Zoom calls. Every minute offline is a strike against surveillance fascism.

autonomically
Munificent

Boon

awry
bower

have weighed in on

Hatfield mccoy
Feud
vendetta

Name 4 spelling wd backwards?
Koan

Ether
Michelson Morley

Anie Besant

the right-wing social media outlet Parler

The beef between the two pundits unfolded this week after Shapiro, a forceful supporter of Israel, was filmed calling Owens “disgraceful” for her “faux sophistication” on the conflict.

out of left field
sas authentication by nature has public endpoint
Penny not droopping
cap gemini

Wage slave
Alienation

op-ed

Behest

restorative justice
Casket

emeritus
Associate

Angel investor
Venture Capital

Jesse Ventura

Rebuke

barrage

kind of BRIDGE thinking is that? 

And Disney's latest venture, a musical retelling of 1937's Snow White, has also failed to escape the controversy with bosses cancelling a London premiere over fears of an inevitable pile-on.

Cloud seeding weather control

Testy
Chief of staff

Pundit

Etymol deranged



Chuck Schumer

Reprieve
Recalcitrant

Delicacy

the privet hedge

Select committee

Blithe

systemic
systematic
whim
whimsy

Dark matter
Dark energy

USA lobbying

Falter
Bottom Line

to bend the ear of

a 'grey market' where hard data is scarce

Glamping

What was the name of IBM supercomputer that defeated world chess champion Garry Kasparov?
A. Deep Blue
B. Watson
C. Summit

Nuncio
Envoy
Ambassador (Gaulish)
Salian

Tenure

Bankruptcy
Credit rating

Informed consent

Buzzword bingo
At the end of the day
At this point in time

Chief of staff

Honorific
Horrific

Gist
Schist
bollard
safety barriers at F1 races
	91 casualties 1920s accident?
Ayrton Senna bs RC

Terse

Ytb: Is English really a Germanic language

Joe Rogan

Ad hoc

Embrasure
Embrace ambiguity
Castle Spiral staircase clockwise up?
Drive on left horseman sword arm
Newel post
Double staircase mansion

The Oval Office
Pentagon
White House

whiplash
Presstitutes

Deleterious

Musk/Gary no1 good idea when tiger chasing

Argmt D Hitler ne most influential cos bad
	list controversial time mag man o year
argmt bad side war can't have heroes
Man o war

Slam poetry

Cloud. Cheap to fail. Expensive to succeed.
The silver lining is the silver y pay

Jk. Pun. In Pour taste

Champing at the bit

Chicken Little

The Pantheon in Rome has stood for nearly 2,000 years, boasting the largest unreinforced concrete dome on Earth.
	pozzolanic concrete, a mix of volcanic ash and lime.
		For decades, researchers believed that pozzolanic concrete was made by mixing slaked lime—a product of quicklime (calcium oxide) and water—with volcanic ash. This reaction created a tough, water-resistant material.

reinforced concrete
concrete etymol

Island gigantis
O2 inc higantism

Remediation Remedial

Hematopoietic

Stemcells

Mustangs
Horse reeds
Donkey
Mule
Hinny
Joey

If 1 fossil (3 bones) hanges knoldge by millions yrs it's not knoldge

Moulting
Dander

meetings/wk expands to fit time avail
avast
ahoy

Delineate

wattle and daub

Welly
Crissy pressies
spag bol
cab sav
AB's
Rellies

Wellywood
Hollywood
Nollywood
Bollywood

Etymol migraine?]

Cuts and lacerations to. Diff?

Dark energy/matter

Df Percolate

Arguably

BEREAVEMENT

Perchance
Happenstance

homer sapien

fealty
liege
livery

Municipal

recession vs depression

Correlation causation
false data patterns

Jerusalem post propaganda arm gvt. Bias
	bs

The Ukrainian president was mocked for his black sweater, which bore the Ukrainian trident, a departure from his usual military fatigues.

Ireland 19c the great wind
1600s west uk great flood/tsunami?
Crowell era African colony
scot  dacolonies Americas
UK invade agentina fail Napoleonic

petulant

Contraindicate

Hyatt

Leaky omes
Think big
Winebox enquiry

Jk. Error. Oops. AI Hallucination. LLSDM not LLM.

whirligig
Windvane?
Weathervane

Popinjay
Poppet
Propinquity

island gigantism, a phenomenon in which animals isolated from other, more diverse populations, end up much larger than they would be on the mainland.

Onwards n etymol

mn tag 679 AD BC stones tumbling dice

Polyhedral
Platonic solids
Archimedian?]?

niche
cachet

Marco Rubio
Rand Paul

picaresque

Self. Context Switching

Proclivity

Customer churn
Market research

Percussive maintenance

Musk Starlink

Demos-oligarchy (no obligations)-king/Aristocracy (noblesse oblige)-tyranny-demos

Riviera
Coe D'Azur?]

there’s some truth in the “buy cheap, pay twice” adage. Even if they don’t cost a lot, items you buy that don’t last very long are still a waste of money.

This is a GRASSTOPS campaign to stop a competitor.

Expedite
Expedient

Gamine
Jejeune
Copacetic

Haptic

Intersectioaliy. Partial truth

Jermain Clement
Moon tv
Jeremy wells
mr Ormsby
Billy t
John Clark
Hudson Hall

ombudsman
Comptroller

Mores
Morish
Moorish
boorish

bungle

Millais?
Ruskin

panacea
exacerbated

intransigence
filibuster
filigree
Jim Crow

Zephyr
Mistral
et al
sly currents

death knell

Alarmist

“He who saves his Country does not violate any Law,” Napoleon

Internet Relay Chat

docket

The fisher king
Beggar's daughter
Potter's field. Pauper's grave?
Debtor's gaol

The Industrial Revolution took workers out of their homes and family trades and into factories. The assembly line was intentionally designed to break work down to the smallest possible part. This allowed work to be done efficiently, repeatably, scalably, and – crucially – without much thought.
Frederick Taylor pioneered this approach, introducing time studies and specialization into the factory. Workers' output began to be measured, standardized, and optimized. A schism formed between the workers and the managers/owners. The further down this road we went, the more management found that workers should only work. They should not think.
The greatest Industrialist, Henry Ford said it better than anyone: 
"Why is it every time I ask for a pair of hands, they come with a brain attached?" - Henry Ford

Heft
Weft

Warp woof
Beleaguered


Chagrin

capitulate

Wholesale
Retail
Monopoly
Vertical cartel

Mercantilism: do tariffs work?
File vs rasp?
Green energy bs
Goldman Sachs
Ideology
Loiter
gerrymander
Andrew Tate
cordite
cordial

Promissary noteet
Niceties
Sweetmeats
Road meta
Trousering
=================================================================================================================================
Spring summer solstice to vernal equinox?
In a post on his Truth Social website, Trump accused Zelensky, who he called a “modestly successful comedian” in a reference to his previous career as a sitcom star and entertainer, of having “talked the United States of America into spending $350 Billion Dollars, to go into a War that couldn’t be won, that never had to start.”

He also claimed Zelensky — who recent opinion polls show as holding support from a majority of Ukrainians — “refuses to have Elections” and falsely accused the Ukrainian leader of being “very low” in polls. He went on to accuse Zelensky of having “played” former president Joe Biden “like a fiddle” for military assistance funds approved by the U.S. Congress over the last three years.

“A Dictator without Elections, Zelenskyy better move fast or he is not going to have a Country left,” Trump wrote.

"living in a disinformation space" created by Russia.
=================================================================================================================================
Lesson's Learned
The Generalist's Moment: AI and the Return of Human Work
All my life, I've been a generalist – creative, optimistic, people-focused, and enthusiastic. 
This path led me through diverse experiences: 
•	from early college entry to studying music and ministry, 
•	from building communities as a resident assistant to working with youth, 
•	and eventually to entrepreneurship, software, and marketing.
Throughout these experiences, consistent themes emerged: 
I gather people, start things, try new stuff, and take on challenges. The fear of failure has never held me back.
As I progressed in my career, I've realized my strengths lay in soft skills: ideation, problem-solving, creative thinking, building rapport, and empathy. These skills are hard to pin down, but they're incredibly valuable.
And therein lies the opportunity that AI presents.
For generalists like me, AI is a secret weapon. What once took months to learn and do can now be accomplished in hours. As technology accelerates, those hours will become minutes, then seconds.
This is why I'm excited about AI. It feels like I've been training for this my whole life. It's the sidekick I didn't know I needed – a research assistant, intern, collaborator, and administrator that can free me up to go so much faster and further.
The rise of AI will have its downsides. 
It's already taking jobs and will take more. But I want to point out that this is part of a larger progression that began with the Industrial Revolution.
The Industrial Revolution took workers out of their homes and family trades and into factories. The assembly line was intentionally designed to break work down to the smallest possible part. This allowed work to be done efficiently, repeatably, scalably, and – crucially – without much thought.
Frederick Taylor pioneered this approach, introducing time studies and specialization into the factory. Workers' output began to be measured, standardized, and optimized. A schism formed between the workers and the managers/owners. The further down this road we went, the more management found that workers should only work. They should not think.
The greatest Industrialist, Henry Ford said it better than anyone: 
"Why is it every time I ask for a pair of hands, they come with a brain attached?" - Henry Ford
It's shocking to even type that. I hate how dehumanizing it is. But it shows the point:
Thinking was for the elites. Work was for the laborers.
This brings us to now. AI can't think, but it's getting closer and closer to appearing to do so. It can make basic choices. It can do menial tasks. And it can do it without ever getting bored or frustrated.
While many jobs are being displaced by AI, there's an opportunity here for all of us to see ourselves as the factory owners saw themselves: the ones designing and thinking. The ones for whom the factory worked.
With AI, we can all have our own factory floors. With AI, the generalist has the upper hand.
But here's the key difference: 
The Industrial Revolution took something from humanity. As much as it brought wealth and resources to some countries, it also stripped people of a piece of their dignity. 
•	Instead of craftsmen who could take pride in their work, the factory made us replaceable. 
•	Instead of working to make meaning, work became more and more about only making money.
Meaning was for the weekends and holidays. Work was a means to an end. A necessary evil. Something we had to do, but no one loved.
This is where AI presents a unique opportunity. More and more, generalists and creative thinkers can take back some piece of our work. 
AI can increasingly do the busy work, freeing us to do the higher-level, more creative, and ultimately more human work – that only we can do.
This isn't just about technology. It's about reclaiming what was lost.
For the first time in 200 years, we have a chance to put humanity back into our work. 
To be whole people again. To think AND do. To create AND execute.
The factory floor taught us to check our brains at the door. AI is teaching us to bring our full selves back in.
Will you join me?
Will you embrace the parts of yourself that don't fit in neat little boxes?
Will you let technology handle the repeatable so you can handle the remarkable?
Because here's what I know:
You have something to say.
You have something to build.
You have something to give.
And now, finally, you have the tools to do it.
🖤 
=================================================================================================================================
The song "All Along the Watchtower" by Bob Dylan explores themes of changing established society through a conversation between two characters, the Joker and the Thief. The Joker expresses a desire to escape his societal position, while the Thief offers a sympathetic perspective on the world's dire state, discussing issues like resource depletion and societal values. Additionally, the song has been interpreted as having biblical connections, particularly to the Old Testament, which adds depth to its meaning. 

songfacts.com+2
“A Hard Rain’s A-Gonna Fall"
Mn Tag:  “Highway 61 Revisited”
	Adele debut album 19
	Man in lack Johnny Cash
=================================================================================================================================
Yet while many offer generous critiques of the track, musician and longtime Dylan associate, Dave Van Ronk, provided some measured criticism, saying of the song and its author, “That whole artistic mystique is one of the great traps of this business, because down that road lies unintelligibility. Dylan has a lot to answer for there because after a while he discovered that he could get away with anything—he was Bob Dylan and people would take whatever he wrote on faith. So he could do something like ‘All Along the Watchtower’, which is simply a mistake from the title on down: a watchtower is not a road or a wall, and you can’t go along it.”
Ideation
=================================================================================================================================
He also called Musk’s handling of the budget “performative.”
“This is not the first time the 78-year-old strategist has attacked Musk's past. Bannon has gone as far as to call Musk a "racist," grouping him with other South African-born tech moguls, Peter Thiel and David Sacks, whom he accused of influencing U.S. politics without any real allegiance to the country,”

Nuclear winter

Afficionado
crony

Consortia

This is akin to

Calico

Cotton
Flax
Wool
Hemp
Fur
Leather
Et Al?

Rumsfeld. n unknowns
Neolib
Neocon
Leo Strauss

Passe/

Carouse
Carousel

Cocteau
Aqualung etymol

Times have changed. The "working in the office is more efficient" was true 5 or more years ago. It is not necessarily true now. It depends on context. Like, is everyone in the immediate vicinity working on the same project.

London Conference in 1921
the Dawes Plan in 1924

Recoup

"20 Days in Mariupol", a documentary about Russia's ruthless siege on the southern Ukrainian city.

Quote: “The truth is like a lion. You don’t have to defend it. Let it loose. It will defend itself.”

threadbare assertions

Bingeley boop Terry Pratchett
Betty Boop

Ayuraveda
Emperor's new suit

2025 Baltic states (change from ru power grid to Eu)
	in nato since when? upper h

Jahannam, using the Arabic word for hell.
	Gehenna?
Tartarus

effusive
nemesis

I can work the steering wheel and swear at the idiot who just cut me off at the same time. That's my multitasking limit.

Backpropagation
Backburner
Afterburner

Errant. Error?
Knight Errant?

Cellphone
deadzones
4G
5G
Sat phone
Sat nav
Buzz Aldrin
Elon Musk Starlink
Tesla
Neuralink

Back propagation

Belittle
Befitting

HBCU

incendiary

Machinations

Equity of a business
Municipality
Munificent

Cadence
Impactful

back country

Detain
Entertain

Funky

TV: Silicon Valley
TV: Succession

Discern

Gamer code significance to a number
subsidiary
lucrative
Dissenters
Covenanters

Sam Altman
solicit
Blindsided

Swindle
Expedite
In the crosshairs

Constitutional Law
Birthright Citizenshp
Reconstrunction Era
Interregnum
Dismantle
Mickey Mantle
Dismal

Injunction
Jurisprudence

Triggered
Based

Excise
Tariff

Lawsuit
Suing

Chances are slim to none. And slim has left town.
More suitable for a galaxy far far away than the real world
Nothing as untethered as that idea
this could crater on his watch

Secretary of State

Nobody ever lost money betting against Israeli Palestinian peace
Noon
King hit
King tide
King pin

Ultimatum

Fizzle
Fissile

Salvo
Semblance
Seemingly

Enclave
Annex

Clown Show

Kingpin
Brash
Bulwark
doubled down

a fillip

Bluster
Filibuster

Marduc
Dagon

systemic

invigilate
defibrillator?]

a cautionary tale
a morality play
a passion play
punch judy
punch mag

porteous?

Psi pressure
excerpts

Anatine refers to something that is related to ducks. It can also describe something that resembles a duck. 

Riviera

Compliant

Cash cow

In 1799, the State of New York began to legislate the abolition of slavery, although the process of emancipating slaves in New York was not complete until July 4, 1827.

emaciated
kibbutz

Archaeologists have recently discovered an incredible 3,000-foot-long ancient stone wall, known as the Blinkerwall, immersed in the Baltic Sea. 

Under international law, including the Geneva Conventions and the Rome Statute of the International Criminal Court, the forced deportation of a population can be defined as a war crime and a crime against humanity.
Surrender twice be shot?

However, it’s important to note that most photos circulating online use forced perspective (a photographic technique that manipulates the size and scale of objects by adjusting the camera angle and distance, creating an illusion that makes subjects appear larger than they actually are)

Brackish
Feshwaer

Ariadne's thread

Quorum

The longest day
The eagle has landed
Jodi Picoult Nineteen minutes epub

prognosis

China’s Belt and Road Initiative (BRI)

epub doco simon schama?

Craigslist
Myspace

American Civil Liberties Union (ACLU)
ADL
AIPEC?
SPLC

Mercantilism
Millais
prowess

Scot sot silent c

And it is in that vein that

annul
anneal

tepid
lukewarm
insipid
fluke

sotto voce
gambit

Scott Carney's New York Times bestselling book What Doesn't Kill Us
vagabond

trepidation 

Knesset
Duma
Dail
waterboarding and renditioning - the inquisition (which one?)
Taiwan parliament punchups et al

Trump Gaza "Riviera of the Middle East” Sly Dubai. Dubai temp migrant workers treat bad. Gotta get out of way when in way of local. Israel treat workers bad too.
Duplicity
Parsimoby
Treason
Sedition
Perfidy

unequivocally

stipulated
vapid

charlatan
jingoist
chauvinist?]

vassal
liege
fealty

shakers
quakers
anabaptists
Mennonites
amish
mary baker eddy
methodists


progeny
undersigned
pogrom etymol

squall

A Rod

When is the 2025 EOFY in New Zealand? For most businesses in New Zealand, the end of the financial year is 31 March 2025; the 2024-2025 financial year being 1 April 2024 to 31 March 2025. There are some exceptions for industries whose peak season falls during March.

Aaron
Big suppliers bully supermarkets (corrupt consumer ministry investigation found no competition issues)
eg milk is loss leader. Mart makes 1%. Sly Coke
healthy food supermarkets gouge
Small ones take the hit when specials
Fonterra 30 w million salary. Forced to buy all milk from farmers by legislation

Gaming:
Lag
RTS
MMORPG
MMOs
FPS First person shooter/Frames per sec

Attest
Contest
Detest

Kids dont do this at home do it at y ffriends homes


Architecting
Actioning
Tasked

Word salad
	word salad spinner
1up spinner thas why y wk in x no imagination

Daedalus:
noun:   (Greek mythology) an Athenian inventor who built the Labyrinth of Minos; to escape the Labyrinth he fashioned wings for himself and his son Icarus
Persepolis

Etymol calibrate

Order of magnitude

Mn ag liberace, Libertine

Luddite

concierge

Slough
Sough
Tough
Rough
Bough?]
Bower
Bowery
Shrubbery
Shrub

mn
Spelling
Principal can be  pal

Franking machine

Above sub par

postcard

name for grenade after pin pulled out
	unpinned
fragmentation
Concussion
Mr rust bomb fuse story

FBI Director James Comey

Fragging
	WW1
	Nam

Etymol epoch, era
Unix epoch time
Aeon

Archon

Mn tag:
nickel coin nickel element
Half a crown
Penny farthing
Doll Dollar
Peso?
Ruble Ruby Rumble Rumplestiltskin
Shilling
Pound
Bob
Quid
DeustschMARK
Yen
China?
Punt
Doublet Doubloon
Floin
Mite
Lepton
Drachma
Silver dollar
Pieces of 8
Et al hist coins currencies forgery minted

Fully fledged
Fledgeling
Duckling
Yearling
Gosling
Sibling
Et al

bestowed

The president turned the South Lawn of the White House into a Tesla showroom last week with five different models - including the infamous Cybertruck - on display on the driveway.

My take: It’s a bad idea to “trust the process” if you don’t have a process.

Eider Down
Flogging a dead horse
Phlogiston

How real are museum dinosaur fossils? Reproductions cos originals too precious? Missing pieces filledin? Double blind test for paleontoloists/face reproducers in clay? / Height estimate from skeleton of person whose height known. French inch/foot diff to eng. Bonaparte ne short

Remediate

Catastrophising

Platitude etymol
Plausible
Plaudit
Pausanius?
Petronius arbiter elegance
Elgabalus

disposable income

'Welcome to Australia where you're ment (sic) to be broke,' the caption read.
The cash rate is currently at 4.1 per cent after the Reserve Bank of Australia cut it by 0.25 per cent in February.


I didn’t see it as some fluke in the making, as in 2016. Then, Hillary Clinton was hounded by the exaggerated email story, which surfaced again, thanks to FBI Director James Comey, days before the election, only to be a nothingburger. Clinton had not campaigned in Wisconsin at all. There was deep Russian interference from early on in the election.

postern gate
eye of needle gamla. Name of gate?

bullion
ingot
troy
carat

thot expt
the Big Lie
The forbidden expt

Exit polls are to be taken with a grain of salt, as they're always off and often revised later. 

aberration
anomaly

fluke

invective

sanatorium
the violent pogrom against the Jews in November 1938, known as Kristallnacht

frivolous
frill

Df Bastion
	Bulwark

He will remake our media so it becomes a Greek chorus, singing his praises and carrying his every word.

Dabble

Pastor Niemöller wrote about this in 1930s Germany; to paraphrase: First they came for the government workers…

second-guessing
double take

Edict

Foo Bar
	FUBAR
SNAFU

Ebullient

TV Show: Severence

nuance

ouster
rustabout
leatherneck
roughneck

Under the 1993 Oslo Accords, both Gaza and the Palestinian Authority-controlled West Bank were meant to comprise parts of a future Palestinian state that was long the end goal of a U.S.-led peace process that has been stalled for decades.

Doubled down on

Mercantilism
Adam smith

The dab

Jumphost

Black Friday

However, they are also known for their aggressive tendencies toward strangers, a trait known as "ojeriza."

Pro forma
aloof
flagship

USA pi laws

Snake oil

revamp

Implacable
Wherewithal

Venice Doge

ideologue

appointee

Connive

Garner

‘Anne of Kyiv’ the popular 11th-century Kyivan princess who later became queen of France. 

Paolo Alto

disavow
Sultry
vaunted
Howitzer
Mortar

Ignore "outliers" eh strong feelings so rate sth v low to skew survey
When have referenda/ums ever been taken seriously by govts?

get out of Dodge
Boot hill

Octopides

Snellen EYE CHART

slake
sleek
buxom etymol
callypygean
Venus de milo
Pieta
Vicissitude
Verisimilitude

Cadence

Winnowing
Threshing
Chaff

Lissome

upstate
backwoods
backroad
backwater

Debilitatng

uncouth
duplicity

donfound
dumbfounded

Christian nationalist

Goblet
Calice
Cilice
Hirsute

Her suit. hirsute

Etymol forensic

Denali, the tallest mountain in North America, will revert to its former name, Mount McKinley, as it was known before Barack Obama changed it in 2015.

Nakba — Arabic for catastrophe

Delve
Spelunk
Deluge

Nasdaq

pep talk
pennant
wager
dreadnought
callous
Callow
Musk has said that nearly anything is possible unless it violates the laws of physics.
sabbatical
Pyrrhic
It felt like the adults were leaving the building
veered
short-sellers
sncrosanct
sanctimony
simony
alimony

inauguration
vignette
precis
abstract
synopsis
memorandum
MOU
cachet
a market capitalization of

brash
Taking a company private
lionize
naysayer
ornery
willful
feisty
Shortseller
Bonehead
lurch
jubilant
sibilant
susurrus
ululation
meltdown

SA Sun City

the occasional technologist’s koan. “The rumor that I’m building a spaceship to get back to my home planet Mars is totally untrue,” he tweeted in 2015.

Storm names

angst
tirades
deride
demoting
sedan
corvette
deference
giddy

he asked a question that made us realize we were looking at the problem completely wrong.

As a leader, Musk managed by example—by working hard, demanding perfection, thinking in unconventional ways, and insisting the inconceivable could be accomplished if it was simply reduced to logical steps.

Todd Maron, who was Tesla’s general counsel

a signature feature

it solved a problem that no one else thought was actually a problem

fiefdom
ephemeral
chaff
berating
pulpit
snatched victory from the maw of catastrophe
rictus
anecdotes
chastened
despot
overarching
ovrweening
a proverb he had once heard: No man comes up with a good idea when being chased by a tiger.

decamped to a

nondisclosure agreements

fetishized

Mn tag model T ford. Black

worrisome
venture capitalist 
df reportedly
weasel word
weasel easel
defamation

memorandum
RFK Jr. has also claimed that Sirhan Sirhan, the man who was convicted of assassinating his father the night after he won the 1968 California presidential primary, is innocent and should be released.
RFK Jr. has also claimed that Sirhan Sirhan, the man who was convicted of assassinating his father the night after he won the 1968 California presidential primary, is innocent and should be released.
	mn tag u2 name of love April fools

Surreal
Lewd

AI obesity

Flensing
Heidi Fleiss

Freemium

Back propagation
afterburner
back burner
put it on the front burner?
burnee? Bernie. Burn knee. Burr knee

Sully

Steadfast
Holdfast
Stronghold

A slew of

https://restfulapi.net/http-status-codes/
1xx: Informational – Communicates transfer protocol-level information.
2xx: Success – Indicates that the client’s request was accepted successfully.
3xx: Redirection – Indicates that the client must take some additional action in order to complete their request.
4xx: Client Error – This category of error status codes points the finger at clients.
5xx: Server Error – The server takes responsibility for these error status codes.

“ESG” (environmental, social, and governance — that is, sustainability)
“DEI” (diversity, equity, and inclusion)

Doge
Dagon
Lorem ipsum

Anthony Fauci, Gen. Mark Milley, members of the Jan. 6 committee

Kid gloves
red carpet
the white glove treatment

word salad

Rescind

Commute vs pardon

Bullhorn
dais

Disavowed
Scion

Have a gander
Gaffer
Grip
Best boy

Walter Mitty
disgruntled

Irenic

Lambast
Idiosyncracies

Young turks
angry young men
lost generation
boomerers
greatest gen
et al

Poignant

Cache
Cairn

grueling


Trumpworld
Trumbo

Salvo
Fusillade
Bombardment
Volley
Enfilade
Why most milit wds French?

Lamented

Harlem Hellfighters

Alleviate
Stupefied
Stupefaction
API Gateways, focusing on two prominent players: Apigee and Kong.
Leap day

festering
Miasma

quicksand
quicklime
quicksilver
quickening (Baby in womb?)


a cultural frame of reference

Pen testing
Smoke testing
Regression testing

Analysis paralysis

Marc Benioff of Salesforce
Larry Fink of BlackRock (which manages more than $10 trillion in investments) 
JPMorganChase
Goldman Sachs
Net-Zero Banking Alliance.

Ringfence
Undocumented feature, not  bug
USA overdoes politeness & patriotism cos diverse and rootless

corporate poohbahs
touted
pledge
railed against
Jamie Dimon, then head of the Business Roundtable

“woke” capitalism.
demonstrating cringe-worthy cowardice
corporate social responsibility
ideological cleansing
perennial
trumpeted

confab

The Nag Hammadi discovery: are these the lost books of the Bible?

Permafrost
Bevvy

You will need to log onto the Datacom VPN if you are outside the office.

And it will likely immediately halt new U.S. money going to the United Nations Relief and Works Agency (UNRWA). It is the agency that distributes aid in Gaza but it has repeatedly been accused of close ties to the terror group Hamas . The UN admitted that nine of its staff may been involved in the Oct. 7 attack on Israel.

Loft
Aloft
Lofty

Revam
A vamp

Sedition

ovation
overture
overt

House Select Committee

Counterpart

Acuity

placate
pride of place
i'm time strapped this week
strapped 4 cash
strapping

signal 2 noise ration

Flush cards
flush loo
flush lined up
flush rich

fervid
fervent

Athenaeum
Lycaeum
Peripatetic
medicant
Academy

Hey nonny nonny
Dithering
Diptheria
plush

cross-selling

any gotchas
cop out

Triggered

Schtick

Babbage
Lovelace

https://www.msn.com/en-nz/news/other/doctors-identify-cause-of-surging-childhood-cancers-and-autism-cases/ss-BB1rkbM8?ocid=entnewsntp&pc=HCTS&cvid=a15726f1cfa64d5c86fd9686277ff127&ei=28#image=3
Doctors 'identify cause' of surging childhood cancers and autism cases
The researchers said these chemicals have increased 50-fold globally since 1950 and are expected to triple by 2050. Yet less than one in five of the substances are tested for toxicity, the team from the Consortium for Children’s Environmental Health wrote in a medical journal. At the same time, an alarming trend has seen childhood cancers increase by 35 percent in the last half-century, despite cancers in older people decreasing. And autism rates have tripled in the last decade. The team also suggests synthetic chemicals and microplastics could be responsible for sharp rises in childhood other illnesses like asthma and obesity. The researchers also called for increased regulations on these chemicals and said manufacturers should be required to monitor their products similar to prescription drugs to look for long-term health issues.
	The toxic chemicals have contaminated the air we breathe, food we eat and water we drink and have been found in virtually every major human organ, including the brain, where they cause widespread inflammation. Toxic chemicals like BPA and PFAS, also dubbed forever chemicals, have also been shown to disrupt the production of sex hormones like estrogen and testosterone, leading to reproductive issues, which may be contributing the West's fertility crisis.

January’s Moon is known as the Wolf Moon
glimmer
aureole
numbus
gibbous
scudding

JK: twice as long as half its length
JK: fup: je testing if y awake
DDOS
CSS

TPPA free trde agreement
NAFTA

epub Jane Kelsey
Nicky Hagar
Loise Nichols
Michael Avanti

xenon therapy - a controversial treatment banned in professional sport
Just 30 minutes spent breathing a low dose of the noble gas can boost the body's red blood cell production

Greenland, an autonomous territory of Denmark, has free healthcare, free education, and subsidized low-income housing. Half of the state’s budget comes from Denmark, about $500 million each year.

Mealy mouthed
-------------------------------------------
https://www.msn.com/en-nz/news/other/i-was-in-gifted-classes-as-a-kid-i-believe-it-was-a-cia-program/ar-BB1rrzsn?ocid=entnewsntp&pc=HCTS&cvid=7d79692703434da2a46c5cf687fc4712&ei=16
I was in gifted classes as a kid... I believe it was a CIA program
Story by Ellyn Lapointe For Dailymail.Com • 9h • 3 min read
Americans who were part of 'gifted and talented' education programs in the 1980s and 1990s believe they were part of a secret government intelligence program.

The Gifted And Talented Education program (GATE) provides students with advanced curriculum and activities to foster creativity and critical thinking skills.
-------------------------------------------
Dryad
Satyr
Nymph
Nereid

Sway baked
Pigeon toed, chested

Giuliani
Steve Bannon

Memetics

Anne Frank. Wrong publish unedited diary?
jk peters 2 wongs white

Chiffon

firebrand

Mn tag The 11th hour

Boho-Chic
Elan

Malarkey
globalization and neoliberalization
immiserated
commiserated
chagrin
much to the chagrin of those who occupied Zuccotti Park during his first term.
gentry
Mar-a-Lago

The United States built the Panama Canal in the early 1900s. In 1977, in response to Panamanian demands for control of the canal, then-President Jimmy Carter signed treaties that led to a full transfer in 1999.

the trade deficit

the Proud Boys, the Oath Keepers
opium wars

Anne Frank

LBJ prv

Treaty of cahuega mex usa war

J D Vance

need 2 ringfence it
Soteriology?

Charter
Charter schools. Ads?

opening the floodgates for
bigot
fct-checking industry
cartel
vertical monopoly
robber barons
antitrust lex

individuation
sublimation

British literary giant George Orwell to be honoured on £2 coin

watchword

central bank digital currencies, CBDCs.

If those are instituted

a 'doom and gloomer'

And what seems to be on the runway are

Alexander Hamilton warned us, but our media was far too busy fluffing Trump’s ego and sanewashing his BS to remind us that our first Secretary of the Treasury and the main author of the Federalist Papers wrote, in 1792:

“Those then, who resist a confirmation of public order, are the true Artificers of monarchy... When a man unprincipled in private life, desperate in his fortune, bold in his temper, possessed of considerable talents, having the advantage of military habits—despotic in his ordinary demeanour—known to have scoffed in private at the principles of liberty—when such a man is seen to mount the hobby horse of popularity—to join in the cry of danger to liberty—to take every opportunity of embarrassing the General Government & bringing it under suspicion—to flatter and fall in with all the non sense of the zealots of the day—It may justly be suspected that his object is to throw things into confusion that he may ‘ride the storm and direct the whirlwind.’” (Emphasis added)

central bank digital currencies
'Woke' thought and the end of individualism
over the past 100 years, the cost of government has gone from just 5 to 10 percent of GDP to 40 percent and even 60 percent in countries like France and Italy

 'After wars, particularly the Punic Wars, the Yeoman farmers that went off to defend the interests of the Republic came home; their farms were in disrepair and bankrupt, so they'd have to move to the cities where they became recipients of welfare. There are a lot of parallels to that in in the modern West.'


Davos

identity politics

free markets
upsurge


civil rights
new deal
	green

Astors: The High Society | Full Documentary 
Neiman Marcus: Last Of The Merchant Kings | Full Documentary 
Audie Murphy

economic meltdown of September 2008 and the Great Recession.

blasted working from home as a 'failed social experiment

the so-called Draupner wave

a smoking gun
Garner

das
Munsa Mansa?]
Croesus


remanded
veto
vied for

Headwind
Tailwind
Leeward
Et al

Salient
Sentient

ousted

appellate procedures

Advanced farming techniques like crop rotation kept the soil fertile.

Broach the subject
brooch

Cahokia medieval Illinois city

consumption 19c disease

self-evident nonsense: for instance, that someone who is anatomically and indeed chromosomally a man can, on his own say-so, declare he is a woman – and thus, as of right, enter any woman-only space.

Hectored
bowdlerize
swimlane
stay your lane
consanguine
quangoes

say-so

languished
languor
scapegoat

oversharing
embezzlement
the Imperial British East Africa Company.

recension of a text

What is the Gospel of Truth?
©Getty Images
Ever since its discovery in Egypt, the Gospel of Truth has stood as one of the most intriguing and theologically rich texts from early Christianity. This manuscript dates back centuries, and has sparked many debates about its origins, authorship, and purpose. While the Gospel of Truth is not a gospel in the traditional sense of narrating Jesus’ life, it does paint a vivid picture of a cosmic struggle between the forces of enlightenment and ignorance.

Presence of mind

Vince Lombardi

paean

Vellum
Parchment

Rhapsody

raunchy

wage v salary

BAFTA
de rigeur

Akimbo

Doyen

pedigree
burkes peerage

queen's English
BBC English

Delectation

Cavort

Glass ceiling
Concrete jungle
urban jungle

reprising
reprisal

where he lettered in football, basketball, and track and field.

epithet
injunction

mark zuckerberg wrote facebook?
	Gates MS DOS?

proscribe
ascribe
describe
prescribe

The Onion
Daily Show
Babylon Bee

clade

preeminence
preiminence?

religiosity

Reserve bank
Paul Revere

pavilion
palanquin
litter
tarpaulin

archipelago
isthmus
peninsula
bight

How a security guard helped Gisèle Pelicot discover her husband was drugging her

the Dunning-Kruger effect

Tenet

Russia hoax

Refute
refusenik

Since buying Twitter in 2022 and rebranding it as X, Mr Musk

Cadre
Christian nationalism

The Thick of It writer Armando Iannucci
Andrew Ng cofounder google brain

"I came to that for a few reasons, but one of them is knowing people like you and other Christians who showed me that the three fundamentals of Christianity map very well onto the three fundamentals of Madisonian liberalism. And one of those is don’t be afraid. No. 2 is be like Jesus. Imitate Jesus. And No. 3 is forgive each other. And those things are very much like how you run a constitutional republic."

Grok

delinquent
truant
wag
hookey

roofie
mickey fin
spike

sprees etymol

The top five humanoid robots according to Elon Musk's Grok AI
Boston Dynamics (Atlas) - excels in dynamic movements like parkour.
Figure AI (Figure 01/02) - deployed in factories, performing autonomous tasks.
Agility Robotics (Digit) - used in warehouses for material handling.
UBTECH (Walker S1) - active in automotive assembly lines.
Tesla (Optimus) - impressive mobility but early in practical application.

"When these big tech companies say that they're trimming management layers, that doesn't really sound like it's being driven by AI," Zhao said. "You're not expecting ChatGPT to replace the manager."
	Instead, cutting management ranks can often reflect a broader strategy.
	"As companies grow quickly, you need to add managers who can coordinate across teams or within teams," Zhao said. "But it's not until things start to slow down that people start asking questions about how necessary those roles are."

solidarity

gruesome
winsome
lissome
buxom

complicit

white privilege
worsted
threadbare

worriers, er, warriors

the warm slap of a bone-dry martini

pasty
ass clown
shake down
A-OK
Navy JAG

Life’s too short to sweat the small stuff 
Bumper sticker

the trailhead
Bridgehead
Beachhead

Haughty
demurred
demure

Gobele tepe
Machu Pichu

SETI
Green equation

Fiasco

Mogul
Tycoon

Denizens

Temu
Amazon
Ali Baba

President Emmanuel Macronfor the first time had recognized the killing of as many as 400 West African soldiers by the French Army in 1944.

wax
wane
warp
woof

Sorcererer's aprentice AI
Journeyman

Hezbollah: state within a state?

Steadfast

entrenchment
retrench
rapprochement?]
rapporteur
rovocateur
entente
detente
enfilade

Loathsome

rapporteurs
Feign
Protocols elders zion

curfew

Perfidy

Potentate

stymied

SPL

1421 sino fleet?
smokestack

myriad

Directive

elicit
Complicit

incongruous
gross negligence
flagrant
Fullbright
Robert McNamara
Salt of the Earth
House unamerican committee
Detroit riots
contends that
preclude

covert

Blackpowder

Blue on blue attack

Affidavit
You have been served

integument

helmsman

heliograph

Memoranda

naval attaché
Saratoga
Sorento moon

Disney war toons

Autonomous agentic AI

delta-wing jets

Side hustle

Tech debt
Value proposition

snarky

Pen twirling

3d printed gun

Aficionado
Uproarious

pemmican
papoose
travois
wampum
wigwam
teepee

flashpoint

the Salic Law, which prohibited women from ruling
Salian dynasty?

Tetrarchy

Unhealthy seed oils like sunflower, grapeseed, canola, and corn could trigger chronic inflammation in the body

slang  ‘ate tacos’” — that is LGBTQ

Sukkot
Yom Kippur (Day of Atonement) and Rosh Hashanah (Jewish New Year)
Hannukkah
	 Antiochus IV.
	In 164 BCE, the Jewish people, led by Judah, managed to expel the Syrian monarchy from Jerusalem. Judah then instructed his followers to purify and renovate the Second Temple, recommitting it to their religious beliefs.
	The focus of Hanukkah festivities revolves around a menorah with nine branches. Each night of the eight-day holiday, a fresh candle is placed and illuminated on the menorah after sunset. The ninth candle, called the shamash, is employed to kindle the rest.
dreidel (game)
	They lit the menorah, a seven-candle candelabrum symbolizing knowledge and creation. The menorah was supposed to be kept lit, but they only had enough oil to keep it going for a day.
	The Hanukkah miracle took place as recorded in the Talmud, a prominent Jewish religious text. Judah and fellow followers witnessed this event while undertaking the mission of rededicating the Second Temple.
	Despite expectations for the oil to deplete and the candles to extinguish, the menorah miraculously stayed aflame for a duration of eight nights. This gave them the chance to acquire more oil to keep it lit. 
menorah
yarmulke?]

ululation

Plasma ring. Sino tech?
	Invis
	force field

a confidant of

“an in-group and out-group joke,” and “laughing at the joke is a sign of loyalty,” 

amulets, also known as phylacteries

EPUB: Jen Mercieca, the author of Demagogue for President: The Rhetorical Genius of Donald Trump
EPUB: Ruth Ben-Ghiat, the author of Strongmen
EPUB: Alexander Reid Ross, the author of Against the Fascist Creep
Fintan O’Toole, the accomplished Irish critic and polemicist
EPUB: The Tools of Argument by Joel P. Trachtman

Ethernet

ITSM

Wrested power

inequity
inequality

the armed guard shot the lock off the door. Ricochet?

Grandfathering agreement

the Arab Spring in 2011
Covid timeline
diaspora

persona

Bereft
Bereaved

On Thursday, a staff member contacted Prof Moon saying the library's director wanted him to remove a quote from historian John Seeley, which famously described the British Empire being 'acquired in a fit of absence of mind'.
arguably

nice play on words
tractenberg system

Fulbright
Carnegie (Mellon)
Rhodes

Jubilant
Sibilant
negligent

could herald a new dawn
embroiled

War and peace

alphabet soup of programming language skills i
Unicorn

Etymol coagulate

In Te Reo Maori it’s called tikanga – respecting others and the land.

stipend

Mn:
John D. Rockefeller, the world's first dollar billionaire.
86 7th form Chernobyl
87 crash black Friday. Rugby world cup
82 lange floated dollar?
81 bok tour
	oil crash?

Feasible

Maven
A topical question

Grimdark
Extreme horror

Conveyor belt
Rube Goldberg
Heath Robinson
NZ toonist ww2 vs Hitler

Embrasure
Embarace uity
Turret vs rampart vs crennelation
Enervate
Satyricon
Panopticon
Escutcheon
stenograms
sycophantic
Horseplay
Notional
Nominal
Eusebius
Juvenal
Jerome
demagoguery
fearmongering
-esque
Satyricist
Nympho
denigration
fomented
Clive James
Bad Actor
Performative
Sanctimonious
“It’s all about the in-group and the out-group,”
Jargon
a lewd Borscht Belt shindig 
playacting
placate
Sallies
vaudeville
vituperation
farce
soothing balm
basalm
basalt
rabble-rousing
Quim. Quimby simpsons

Correlation ausation
Steelman opn argmt

And yet for those two young men it never didn’t land.

Select Committee

a consistent, concise, and strongly typed programming language that offers modern features like null safety and pattern matching.

Preemtive pardon
exempt

Spindle
Spool

baccalaureate

Avast
Westward ho
Ahoy

Anne Bonney
Mary Read
Grace O'Malley
Famous Sino wn

the significance of the number 16777216 in memory addresses of some old Game Cube games. The number is related to endianness

ANOVA

Swatch
Swathe
Swanee River
Ole Man River
Swandri
Swaddling
Manger
Crib
Cot
Cottage

Decal

Attrition
Trite
Contrition

Trilobite
Ammonite

Moravian

Pat Robertson

Raft medusa Fr diversity sly now brit

Tailspin

guardrails

Ashton Tate

 'the madman theory of foreign policy' — the idea that unpredictability and an apparent willingness to use force aggressively can help a political leader intimidate his opponents and achieve his geopolitical goals.

Great man theory
Social history vs impact of battles

Spuds n muskets - musket war drivers
beaver wars - pelts n muskets
slavery Africa wars - muskets n maize
Guns germs steel jared diamond. Collapse

Forrester
Gartner

Calque (pron?)
Wikip pronunciation symbols
Stenography larn

RC Monsignor

What is a functional conultant?

Gallows humor
	black humor
	dark humor
	sick joke
Benji Lovitt, a Tel Aviv-based comedian who has co-written a book about Zionism and Israeli culture.
Punching down vs punching up
Thomas Pyncheon?
Tom Picardy Economist epub

Wallah

cow into submission
Coward

instill
distil?]

Collegial
	
Bully Hayes
Henry Morgan

Billy Bunter
Flashman

Prius
Priapic
Prussian blue

demarcation line

Indicted

Aforementioned

Esplanade

Zircon

Impugn

Blerta

Harfleur
Gravelines
Grosvenor

contentious

Etymol Fiasco

Wrangler
Roustabout

Garbanzo
Mungbeans

divulge

Zouave
Suave

weather weapon
“directed energy weapons.”

the Bundy Ranch standoff, when armed militants faced down the FBI and other federal agencies in 2014 during a dispute over rancher Cliven Bundy’s refusal to pay grazing fees

Roger Penrose vs Deep Blue
Roger Penrose on AI

juridical

Celtic vs Roman rite RC
NFP ok 4 RC?
In his book, The Reform of the Liturgy 1948-1975, the architect of the reform that took place after the Second Vatican Council, Annibale Bugnini, expressed his regret that he could not move Ash Wednesday onto a Sunday. A penitential Sunday is impossible, he explains, but as things stand, Ash Wednesday is forever associated with Mardi Gras.

St. John Paul II’s landmark work on the theology of the body, a masterful piece of writing that has been made more accessible over the past twenty-five years by an excellent translation as well as through practical books by popular Catholic authors on the subject. (Matt Fradd’s Delivered is a great example.)

progeny
exogenous

auburn
ajar
blood orange
a great big orange moon bellying up over the black Pocono ridge

List prophecies in OT that predict Xt

Taxation in itself is not inherently theft. We have a moral obligation to pay taxes justly due to civil authorities so they can fulfill their duties to the common good (CCC 2240). Our Lord himself said, “Render to Caesar the things that are Caesar’s” (Matt. 22:21).
This does not imply, however, that government officials can take money from people whenever or however they want. Leaders are still capable of acting in ways that match the Catechism’s definition of theft: “the usurpation of another’s goods against the reasonable will of the owner.”
Taxation may not be theft, but inflation caused by irresponsible government action is. It financially pulls the rug out from under people and families, all outside the regular legal processes that are supposed to happen when taxing citizens. It is particularly egregious, as it most harms the poor and those providing for families.

turned on a dime
conjecture

In this, Schwarzenegger shares with many “practical” modern people an impenetrable circularity of thought: the “spiritual stuff” is not real, so I won’t look into it, and by not looking into it, I stay rooted in what’s real.

op-ed titled

The former California governor is now doing press to promote his new Netfix show FUBAR

Huffington Post
The onion
Xtn sci monititor
Babylon bee
Satire lost ability keep up w reality
Howard Stern

clearly lacks a living faith in the risen Savior
df living faith
Bs exas RC theology

William Bradley Pitt

chimed in with

the Dunning-Kruger effect

Schwarzenegger will shed more about his life in Netflix's upcoming three-part limited docuseries about his life and career. "Arnold" premieres Wednesday.

What did Nietzsche say about heaven?
The 'Kingdom of Heaven' is a condition of the heart — not something that comes 'upon the earth' or 'after death'.

What is the theory that everyone goes to heaven?
Essentially, universalists believe that because God is loving and just, and because Jesus died for the sins of the whole world, every person will be saved, whether or not they recognize their need for salvation and place their faith in Jesus.


Henry Kissinger
Arnies message o the ru ppl 2024

IT: Linting?

Closed captions

America is the shining city on a hill,

Arnold Alois Schwarzenegger

Calev Ben-Dor, a former analyst at Israel's foreign ministry, said the 'reasoning was that in a war, it is preferable to fight the more powerful foe first, and Hezbollah's strength far outweighed Hamas's'.

Portmanteau

Centre of gravity
spate
spat
spatz
galoshes
puttees
cummerbund
corsage
gaiters

Consolidation

ultra-orthodox Haredi Jews

Air quotes
Jazz hands

oust
ouster
roster
rafter

beam
joist
buttress
cantilever

pithy statement

Knesset (Israel's parliament) 

Brigantine
Galeass
Galley
Brig
Cutter
Schooner
Man O' War
Barque
Trireme
Quadreme?
Quinquereme
	
Richter scale

Etymol remorse

Did Ye Aye? Funny Scottish Irish Slang Sarcastic Insult
People huv tae knooo
vintage
typography
orthography

"Aye" means yes but then there is "aye aye" which is naval language that has moved into normal use and means "yes, what you just asked me to do I will do".

Fuckin' A (positive) vs Fuckin' A (negative) : r/etymology

The racism of low expectations

Flotilla

Cursory
Cursive

Impromptu

Nitrogen fixation

Disaffected
Lockstep

Alma Mater

Etymol apparatusaparatchik?]

Perforce

Tour de force

Humvee
Abrams Tank

On a me
Unconscionable
Gen Bradley/Eisenhower speeches on Mil Indust Complex
NWO

Girding loins

National Guard
Territorials
Home Guard
Reservists

Aghast
Food stamps
War bonds

incursion
excursion

Associate Director

Accountants live and breathe their budgets
assets-liabilities  equity?

susurrus

versace
armani
hilfiger
Kelvin Klein

Alain Bauer, professor of criminology at the National Conservatory of Arts and Crafts, puts it this way: “Terrorists always say what they are going to do, dictators always do what they say”,

wantonly

systemic
systematic

practical
practicale
pragmatic

pram
perambulator

Halbach array

Goldbach conjecture

psychological warfare

US Secretary of State Antony Blinken
Steve Bannon

A YouGov poll

Stanza
Under the black dot

Neale Donald Walsch

Evince

pragmatic
practical

praxis
nexus

Inlet
Islet
Peninsula
Isthmus

Reslience
Mindfulness
=====================================================================================================================================
https://confluentstrategies.com/resources/credit-card-delinquencies-are-on-the-rise/
https://developer.confluent.io/tutorials/credit-card-activity/confluent.html
https://medium.com/microsoftazure/messing-around-with-apache-kafka-using-the-confluent-cloud-free-trial-327888fc8b96
https://medium.com/@t.m.h.v.eijk/kafka-connect-ccdak-summary-2024-c80a9eb33457?source=read_next_recirc-----327888fc8b96----0---------------------6aea2820_646f_4f36_898d_0c964e3a4d13-------
https://medium.com/microsoftazure/introducing-graphrag-with-langchain-and-neo4j-90446df17c1e?source=author_recirc-----327888fc8b96----1---------------------e9335c2f_fb43_4943_adb5_2a433fe11e70-------

=====================================================================================================================================

Lex
Consulting
Anti poaching clause

John Key 3 way snowflake
=====================================================================================================================================
Agenda 2030
Ire 2030

FTW For The Win

Breakout event/room

Demure
Svelte
Buxom
	etymol

Southern cross & POINTER

That old chestnut

Estaban
Edge cases
And what have you

Echew
Esquire
Escrow
Arbitrage

Black ice

Quorum

Steve Jobs on meetings
	Elon Musk?

Exit poll
KNIME
Mn tAG RED/BLUE PILL REPUB/DEMOS

shadow cabinet
deep state
dark web
deep web

Comms:
Timeliness
Accuracy
Tone

Sir Paul Livingstone OSPRI?

Cadre
Clade

Encave
Cavicle
Clavier

Sconce
Ensconced
Scone (baking)
Stone of Scone. Treaty stone. Crowning stone.

It feels like I’m boasting... but I guess that’s a hit I’m willing to take to ease your worries of trusting some random dude with your time and attention.

CDC impact measurable, but nor perceivable by ppl who use the system.

George Washington Carver

Julian date format
Unix Epoch Time
Gregorian

acumen

Comfortable numb

When do you think we'll reach the technological singularity? 
Moral singularity

Antijoin

for xml path 3 * reads expensive
synapse shared resources slow
can pass attribute to coalesce me cant name it within coalesce
Geospatial divide by zero issue
	3d plotting sql server geospatial
Java sly C#
VB.net usage?
JavaScript no reln Java?

Ancient Greek mathematician Pythagoras was the first to argue that the world was round in around 500 BC, with fellow countryman Aristotle confirming his findings 150 years later. Fast-forward another century and Greek astronomer Eratosthenes had measured Earth's circumference – and got it right within a few miles. 

Poor Marie Antoinette. As if being publicly beheaded wasn’t bad enough, she’s now gone down in history as a byword for greed, callousness and excess, thanks mostly to a line of dialogue that is, at best, a mistranslation. The notorious phrase reads "Qu’ils mangent de la brioche", and while brioche bread was considered a luxury in 18th-century France, it’s hardly the Victoria sponge so often imagined by modern minds. More importantly – she never said it. The phrase is drawn from Confessions, a work by philosopher Jean-Jacques Rousseau which was written 24 years before the French Revolution when Antoinette was 11 years old.

Leif Erikson
Vinland sagas. In the 1960s this legend was confirmed by the discovery of L’Anse aux Meadows, a ruined Viking settlement on the Newfoundland coast.

Some political propaganda is so effective that people still believe it 200 years on. It was influential British cartoonist James Gillray who caricatured Napoleon as a short, belligerent, pompous and ridiculous figure, prone to childish temper tantrums. ‘Little Boney’ actually measured five feet and seven inches (1.68m) – slightly above average for his era – but the image stuck. Napoleon himself saw and despised the cartoons, and was quoted in his later years as saying that Gillray "did more than all the armies of Europe to bring me down".
While we’re busting Napoleonic myths, he also did not shoot the nose off the Great Sphinx while in Egypt, and did not spend the night alone in the Great Pyramid. The recent Ridley Scott film Napoleon did little to dispel his many mythologies. "He came from nothing, he conquered everything", declared the movie poster, above Joaquin Phoenix’s piercing gaze. He came from a family of minor Corsican nobility, and he conquered around 2% of the known world.

Between the surrender of France in 1940 and Germany’s invasion of the Soviet Union in 1941, Britain technically stood alone against the Nazis – but the word 'alone' is so misleading it might as well be false. At that time the British Empire covered nearly a quarter of the globe, and a mixture of carrot and stick saw men and munitions pour in from Canada, Australia, South Africa, New Zealand and beyond. India mobilised two and half million soldiers, the largest volunteer army ever assembled, while a thousand men from the Cayman Islands joined the Royal Navy – equivalent to roughly two thirds of the adult male population.

The ex-president gave a sit-down interview with Maria Bartiromo, one of the Fox News hosts whose role in pushing Trump’s lies about the 2020 election landed her bosses in the crosshairs of a billion-dollar lawsuit filed by Dominion Voting Systems. It was later settled to the tune of $787m.

the Y chromosome (male) and in the mitochondrial DNA (transmitted by the mother)
The word Sephardic comes from Sefarad, or Spain in Hebrew.
Italian explorer Cristobal Colon, also known as Christopher Columbus
On October 12, 1492, the ships made landfall in what is now the Bahamas and later in the month, Columbus pulled spotted Cuba and thought it was mainland China.
the Nina, the Pinta and the Santa Maria

The first onset of a syphilis epidemic was documented in the late 15th Century in Europe, leading historians to believe it was brought to America when Columbus set foot on the continent.
DNA evidence has now revealed that treponematosis, an age-old syphilis-like disease, existed in Brazil more than 2,000 years before the explorer set sail for the new world.
Kerttu Majander, postdoctoral researcher at the University of Basel, said: 'The fact that the findings represent an endemic type of treponemal diseases, and not sexually transmitted syphilis, leaves the origin of the sexually transmitted syphilis still unsettled.' 

inherently in here
-----------------------------
n 1925, Bruce Ingram was given a mummified hand with the words, "Cursed be he who moves my body. To him shall come fire, water, and pestilence." Soon after receiving this grim gift, a mysterious fire burned down his house. Ingram rebuilt his house only to have it destroyed by water in a flood. Coincidence? You be the judge, but it was enough for Ingram, who is said to have disposed of the hand and was then able to keep his house in one piece and pestilence at bay.
-----------------------------
"When the Lord your God brings you into the land you are entering to possess and drives out before you many nations—the Hittites, Girgashites, Amorites, Canaanites, Perizzites, Hivites and Jebusites, seven nations larger and stronger than you— and when the Lord your God has delivered them over to you and you have defeated them, then you must destroy them totally. Make no treaty with them, and show them no mercy." - Deuteronomy 7:1-2

2024 7 front war
-----------------------------
“If you have a dumb incentive system, you get dumb outcomes.” The late Charlie Munger was endlessly quotable, but this pearl of pith from the famed investor is one that every manager should remember.
-----------------------------
mobocracy

Georgia guidestones
red heifer
gelding
steer
filly
colt

moratorium
ultimatum
tyranny of the majority vs pluralism
Speaker of the House

Josh Hartnet?

Broadside
Broadsheet

Pew Research
haylen poll
dow jones
nzdaq
nikei

landfall

Le Figaro

decennial time

Divest

perfunctory
Municipal
Jewry
Ombudsman

meted out
staple

bestride
ASTRIDE

sarcophagus

Bs: Iron maiden
chasity belt
prima nocte

J Caesar In 44 BC he was declared ‘dictator for life’ and was promptly murdered by a group of senators

spearheaded
beknobbed
bedknobs?] n broomsticks

J Caesar  instituted the 365-day calendar
the Erdapfel – the oldest surviving globe constructed by Martin Behaim in 1492.
piri reis
1421? sino usa trip

self-aggrandizing
	abnegating
	effacing
	JUSTIFYING
	RIGHTEOUS

Called 'a teardrop on the cheek of time' by Indian poet Rabindranath Tagore, the Taj Mahal is world-renowned for the transcendent beauty not only of its architecture, but its backstory. Built by heartbroken Mughal emperor Shah Jahan as a mausoleum for his beloved wife Mumtaz Mahal

Byzantine emperor Basil the Bulgar-Slayer (pictured), meanwhile, is thought to have blinded up to 15,000 Bulgarian prisoners in AD 1014, leaving just one man in every hundred with his sight so he could lead the others home.

Stilicho
Belisarius
Boethius

It was Roman author Juvenal who famously wrote that "bread and circuses" were the only things necessary to keep the common people from revolt. 

baying
mewling
howling
roaring
braying

nasty, brutish and short

Britain (& x other countries in brit empire) stood alone against nazis ww2
Hitler planned/wanted conquer world?
Berserkers bs?
	shroom piss?

Salacious
innuendo
vicissitudes
venutius
invective
visious circle
viscous
nature abhor vacuum

trope
troposphere

scathed
scythian wooden capital

saturated fat
polyunsaturated fat

$1.739 $2 GST exclusive?

Maersk

excerpt
underscore
ballistic missile
ICBM

Cape Cod

The attack was very close to a Unifil post

the Sun Belt (USA)
Hibiscus coast
Mosquito coast
gold coast
ivory coast

Upanishad

the right side of history

it amazes me how people forget all this [Neville] Chamberlain deal in 1938.

Mroueh is worried about Israel’s expanding operations in southern Lebanon. “But my feeling is that they will have a difficult time. All I know is that they lost the war in 2006.”

Thermite
C4
Cordite

Sahara fertile Roman times?
Egypt less deserty?

Stoke
tentative
tenuous

Taxis
	NY Yellow
	London BLACK

Le Figaro Newspaper
1st newspaper ever?
Pamphleteer

An Ell? Unit of measmt?

henna
kohl?]

kibbutz

But the moment that day when thousands of modified pagers detonated in the hands and pockets of Hezbollah members, Israel grabbed the initiative in the 11-month stand-off and it hasn’t let it go.
	In the weeks since that audacious act of sabotage — the kind of hidden, long-embedded attack known as a “red button” operation — Israel has kept Hezbollah reeling

Gig economy

Cusp
Nexus
Praxis

1983 bombings in Beirut that killed 63 people at the US embassy and 241 US marines and 58 French paratroopers at their barracks.

Many P Hall
Gerard Manly 	Hopkins

as the saying goes, “eat the elephant one bite at a time.”
interdicting

Kremlin

Danzig
Ramstein

Ramshackle

Sunset strip
Rodeo drive
42nd street
94th? n Vine love potion # 9

a phenomenon known as depredation, where sharks prey on fish caught by fishermen before they can be retrieved. 

offsetting the opportunity cost is ...

Feet of clay

Mrs Miggins
Sweeny Todd?]
Dick Turpin. Black Bess
Big Bertha gun
bolides - which are space rocks that explode when they hit the Earth's atmosphere.

Mary Pickford
It girl
Mary Tyler More
Twiggy
The new black
Mrs Miggins
Sweeny Tdd
Dick Turpin

conflagration
Bellicose

Pearl Jam

Lionsgate films

Reuters

Telegram
Telegraph
Pony express

Salvo

not in the right headspace

The Bayesian yacht disaster victims, including British tech tycoon Mike Lynch. Seven people were killed when the Bayesian, a £30 million ($40m) superyacht sank near Sicily. Darktrace founder

a shell company
a holding company

Upshot

Mattel
Hasbro

ideations 
title 8

etymol penultimate
pendragon
aprichard
apringle

opprobrium

copy paste handguns tequila etymol
door jamb
hoarding

pueri make visual dictionary
pueri vedic math
hyperlexia
routine hugger

Lennox SA schl boycott

John Key Flag referendum

Kibbutz

Jk: There's a madness to the method.

Champagne Charlie

venous
Venus Lucifer?
	Goddess of love. Aztecs et al diff?

haranguing

pony and trap
hansom cab

bravado
baravura
machismo
macho

freefall
terminal velocity
escape velocity

Gerrie monkey tree
messenger promoted over coal face worker

Lo and behold

Doge Venice

Aspergers or Ass”perger’s

bloatware
vaporware

hit market on time but with bugs

Bernard Marr. Hype cycle cheerleader/futurist (less accurate than economists)

toothcombe or toothcomb?

Cultural Relativism

whistleblowers

Andy Warhol
Dandy

shies away from

scramble to hit numerical targets without actually fixing the root causes?  People respond to what they are measured against, after all, Minister, and your intervention may just compel a short-term solution, when really, it’s a long-term, multi-generational problem.

hollywood movie b/w hang from clock stunt
	hist of stuntwork

emily dickenson
dickering
whickerig
nickering
whinney
baying
lowing
cawing

piques
hyperandrogenism

Kyle Rittenhouse

beat reporters
exasperated

community college

Technically, ‘Tucker Carlson Tonight’ is not news. A slander suit against the Fox News host in September 2020 ruled out that he was not ‘stating facts’ but ‘engaging in exaggeration’ to frame a political debate.

niche
dog-whistling
cycle centrist parties expand L or R & soak up fringe voters

shining beacon on hill etymol

The Great Replacement is a theory developed by French author Renaud Camus that states that global elites are replacing the white population in Western countries with immigrants and people of color.

infraction
meek
	other cheek poem
wayward
tyke

meter metre
center centre

MN TAG
Blackshirts
Brownshirts
Redshirts
All Blacks
famous nicknames
	places
	ppl
	teams

did not allow for any sort of redshirting of players.
wince
flinch

understated

pubescent
senescence

all sorta kinda…meh

bland ne meant bad
blandishment

bleachers
cleats

mentor
mentee
manitee
matinee

Leaderboard

CPR Cardo Pulmonary rescusitation?]?

exclusionary behavior:
Microaggressions 
Unconscious bias 
Stereotyping
Marginalization

A former boss once told me that, “the thing about assholes is that they think you’re the asshole!”

Simon Sinek

Peter Drucker said: “Culture eats strategy”
invidious
insidious

inchoate

Pay it forward
allude
elude

Bud Light ad team

Ivory towers

pertinent

Humboldt
inveigle
plethora
monikers

wreak

capstone
20c sas eng in ire black ops jailed
cosmopolitan

credibility
credulity
4th wall
plot armour
armored armoured
armoire
suspension of disbelief
strained metaphor

ensue
gentlemen & players lords
colloquial

jk consultant borrow watch charge tell time
	architect screw in lightbulb
	architect sx

hedge fund hedge bets hedge witch/school/knight
derivatives
futures
debenture
arbitrage

bulwark

foetid fetid
furloughed

transit of Venus
precession
perihelion mercury
azimuth
zenith

etymol zodiac

venous
venal

literal
littoral

FOIA.gov - Freedom of Information Act
adviser/advisor

yarmulke
keffiyeh?
mandala
Koan
ohmmmmm!

imogen
isolde

Bathurst
Peter Brock badger

RC Star David astrology

the atlantic
vogue
GQ
VHM?
Woman's Weekly
Paris Match
Der Spiegel
The New Yorker
Punch

The Bible for many a modern witch is ‘The Modern Witch’s Guide to Happiness’ by Luna Bailey
Witch and author Pam Grossman

the Freudian theory that dreams are a direct line to our subconscious desires doesn’t necessarily hold true today

one of the most woo-woo elements of
accoutrement

catharsis
pathetic
bathetic

Beyoncé occult?
	hollywood
		possn
solace

will to
	power
	et al
truth to power
occupy wall st

John Rawls

Law professor Anita Hill accused Clarence Thomas of sexually harassing her in the workplace. Thomas was a nominee for the Supreme Court at the time.

second-wave feminism

salem witch trials

don't see values we swim in. even scientists

confront
effrontery
affront
frontage
storm dront
battle front
in front of
frontier
front on

french windows
bay windows

montage
collage
collagen

funereal
funerary
frescoes
gouache

grimaldi
Garibaldi mason?
proctor
disordered act

forage
fecund
wrike

intersectionality
	60's resch blk m machine ops, alb wn secretary 0 blk wn

etymol charade
df vintage car/mbike > 40 YO
	70's

Moon River
Sorrento?]

stoking
brakeman
coke

verandahs

groupthink
newthink
yay boo wds

fraught
decorum

status quo
ne aware of values we swim in

unavoidable: death and taxes
ne talk about: politics and religion

Glenorchy

tiller
capstan

surfeit
Origin of necktie & suit

doldrums
sargasso

Shock Jock

Jws sent scapegoat to wilderness
Jubilee year every 7 to cancel debts that come from inevitable inequality
jubilant
sibilant

etymol divorce

mainstay
exuberant

etymol vice
Guy Fieri

cottage industry

slacks
a shift
loafers
boatshoes
dungarees

proration?
ameliorate

Lie
	by omission
	et al

jk above below avg IQ

etymol semester trimester
sabbatical sabbath?
tenure
penury

argmt relve poverty

mentor
mentee
only children do better?

vying

lightning plug apple?

Oxfam
South Korea's June 1987 Democracy Movement

COP26 (Environment)

Marx Poetry

impecunious

vocal fry
gutteral

cockerill
disgruntled
bail bond

unconscionable

MN TAG 007
	M
	Q
V SF tv series
XXX Vin Diesel
HHH wrestler
H Block
Q Tip
agent 86
	99
	other agents from Bond & Get Smart
Joe 90
Stingray
captain scarlet?]
x86 computer
640 K
Atari/Commodore 64
ZX81
	Spectrum
Port 80
Error 401
42 Life universe everything
RED dwarf
Snow White
1521
1433
	Postgres
	MariaDB
	MySQL
	Et al Redis...
Pi day
Euler's no
	et al
Avogardo #
Planck Const
Age universe/Earth billions
most common elts earth, universe
seconds light from sun to earth
Mn list of 10 famous proofs
	thot expts
	expts
	sci hoaxes
	unsolved math probs
# moons Neptune
% earth gravity of moon & each planet
Orbit duration each planet
	& moons
Avge temp each planet & moon
Avg dist from sun each planet
List of objects in solar system
# books Koran
	Bible
	Vedas
	Shksp plays
	Lines & stanzas iliad odyssey aeneid Beowulf Roland Kalevala Gilgamesh hesiod metamorphoses
Golden ass
Philly 862rs
golden state wrrs
San Fran 49ers
Black socks
Auk Blues
great auk
Bombay hills
queen st farmer
ponce (bridge) on bee
da da da dum Beethoven's 5th?
Ascii codes
Unicodes
Code page 120?
Intel vs Am?????
Morse code
semaphore
Braille
Famous prisoner/cell nos mandela
famous car #plates
Famous st adresses 10 downing, 221? baker st, Hogwarts?
Famous railway stations
number 8 wire
middle C 440 hz. Wavelength?
Wavelength/freq red light
Cosmuic background radiation
What speed is earth moving away from univ centre?
speed of light in MPH
diff unit systems
	Cubit
100 arme gk monster
	#s assoc w myth & monsters
300 spartans
Astronom unit
parsec
famous parallels lat long
red shift
blue shift?
doppler
huygens
james webb
hubble
fred hoyle
Newton ne good sci cos alchemy/bk dan? bs argmt


black friday sale
bloody sunday

GKhan 30mill descendants. How many descendants avg man od 700 years ago have?
peroration

Oppo phones
pejorative

Bailiwick

quandary
qualms

"Saints" comes from the Greek hagios, which means "holy," or "sacred." "The Way" is a reference to the Hebrew concept of halakhah, which comprises a set of rules by which Jews should live by.

digital twins

Harry does not want to call it racism, but unconscious prejudices that can lead to racism.

Gangham style place Korea
reimburse
affiliate
memory foam
crikey
swathe

(sic)
ibid
[]

free trade deal bs
	give free trade in areas y r strong only
private equity
mire
admire
Monica Lewinsky
Lew Rockwell

piazza
st marks venics
	horses constantinople
inferiority complex
freudian slip
Fixated
quashed
apparel

elicit

"free speech absolutist" Elon Musk.

Ethereum?]

Jk ytb y ne funny heckle
	grmn
	Knock ckock whose there. Just open up?
	why chicken cross road. Obeying orders

tHEOBALD

Movie Horrible Bosses
Movie Thank you for smoking
Were you at the Platforms & Data - All Hands meeting?

Photo red eye

it girl
the new black
twiggy
mary tyler more
breakfast at tiffanys

mumbo jumbo
sloop

astigmatism

angiosperm
connifer

mayfair
soho
savoy

MN TAG:
Juneteenth
black hist month

SCM
volumetric

etymol boondocks

boondoggle?

paradigm etymol

vocal fry

amortizing
deprecate
depreciate

truss
brace
corset?]

kiosk?]

registrar

evocative
turgid
platitudes
blithe
blather
reactionary
Mixtapes

Kismet

Logie
Bafta
Pulitzer
Fields
Nobel
Emmy
Grammy
Academy Award/Oscar
Fullbright
Rhodes

myir
91 Wilson St
190 Hanson St
14 Kotinga St?
104 Taylor Tce
59 Franklyn
Addres of each Job bldg
JK175
SI7267
BAZ450
GEG608
HRA226
M/D car
K's Car
Uni ID nos
Bank/cred acct nos
(0)48718264

Opex Capex
Affirmative action
Positive discrimination

#####  gaboni tribe weissmuller
Argmt: Pan Afr ne exist 17C why db side dub. Y alb n side dub
Argmt: Accusn CS
	So what is Conspiracy theory?
	breathe together
	so give "fatuous" exa wo giving name eg intnat org dedicated overthrow world
		so Commie ne happened
		Nzi
		et al
Argmt: Nzi ne want rule world
Redf/rename evth, truth still holde - Isomorphism
If say Wds worthless Paradox cos using wds
Jk Poet Wordsworthless
twas hit record. S Silent. Opp of. Et al exas.
recourse
impugn

gist

etymol regression

act
bill
statute

interpolate
extrapolate
strapping
thews
brawn

catafalque?

brown bag session

co-opt
coerce
co dependent

lop-eared rabbit

space shuttle disasters

algal bloom

introit

etymol exploit

"What we fear of doing most is usually what we most need to do"
RALPH WALDO EMERSON

silent majority

stocks
pillory
scold's bridle

kurtosis
kerning
keening

Homeostasis
silt

Do black holes break the PUN (Ppl Uniformity Nature (Hume))?

tentative

inchoate

Home Strait or home straight?

commonly mispronounced wds

credulity

abuttment
burr
butte

embroiled

backburner
afterburner

prelate
primate
D: Jim Duggan
Oxford Don D class Canterbury

capstone
keystone
cornerstone
foundation stone
lodestone
Lintel

jilted

caboose

dwindle
tirade

tiara
neglige/
decolletage?]

diva

fraternal twins
frat boy

intimated

locked in mortal combat with

Trump took a break from ranting about his legal woes on his social media platform Truth Social and turned his attention to the crises in Russia, warning the world that it shouldn’t be routing for Yevgeny Prigozhin and his band of mercenaries to take control in Russia. 

it is what it is

insipid
lukewarm
livid

Bergoglio met sudan war crims?

Imbroglio silent g?

in situ

symbolic link

fallow
fecund

systemic
systematic

click ops

symbiotic

flint knapping

flint michigan water quality

etymol paragon
	polygon
	n-gon

ideated

impugn
repudiated

a regus
rebus

Eid al-Adha, which in Arabic literally means the "festival of the sacrifice", commemorates the story of Prophet Abraham’s sacrifice, a test of faith.
Celebrated by Muslims all around the world, it is the second Islamic festival of the year, and follows Eid al-Fitr.
The day of Eid-al-Adha falls on the tenth day in the final (12th) month of the Islamic Lunar Calendar; Dhu-al-Hijjah. During the three-day celebrations, Muslim families around the world come together to honour Prophet Abraham’s devotion to Allah with gifts and feasting.
The occasion also marks the end of the Hajj pilgrimage to Mecca, which is one of the five pillars of Islam. All able-bodied Muslims must undertake Hajj at least once in their lifetime, provided they can afford to do so.
This year, Eid al-Adha is on 29 June 2023 in New Zealand and celebrations will take place at Trust Arena Henderson and Due Drop Centre (ex Vodafone) Manukau in Auckland, and people from all communities are welcome to come and experience a day of joy.

disdain
Jimmy Crack Corn

intimated

excerpt
seminar

grammar []
ibid

faze

crumping
southpaw

mosh pit

lamprey
surfeit?]

lampoon
parody

starstruck

self-deprecating

Butter Fingers

When he wrote verses, he wanted most of the words to rhyme; he wrote long words or phrases on paper and, underneath, worked on rhymes for each syllable. Although the words often made little sense, the drill helped Eminem practice sounds and rhymes.

ground zero

the 'Murph Challenge', which consists of running a mile, completing 100 pull-ups, 200 press-ups and 300 squats, before running a further mile, all while wearing a 9kg weighted vest. 

analect
dialect

dichosis
circumjacence

etymol serge sergio
sierra serried serrated?

Chapparal

petered out
Winston Churchill famously described Russia as "a riddle, wrapped in a mystery, inside an enigma".
His words from 1939 still appear to be valid
baffle
raffle

behest

tranche
stanza

reprise
historiography

laconic
taciturn
tacit
explicit

deign

debenture
arbitrage

hiatus

truculent
trepanation

ignominious

Worst ever
	movie
	novel

tarmac

Norman Rockwell
Norman Mailer?]

intelligentsia
Frederico Fellini

metafiction

profane
cameo

intracrural

list of mutinies

joinery

gratuitous
Obamacare

supercar
	vintage
	classic
horsepower

Semiotician

wantonly

windthrow
windfall

indignant
indigent

Olympic eSports, Zwift Cycling.
https://pinkribbonbreakfast.co.nz/
	breast cancer

byline

soundling
fledgeling
suckling
sibv
yearling

Herewith
forthwith
heretofore

The Infamous Scene That Got Bewitched Cancelled

tenure

transient

EPUB Symbology

phlebotomy
Lobotomy

decathlon
pentathlon
heptathlon
summer vs winter games

penthouse

Ardern bought NZ press 2021-22

dereliction of duty
riding it out
accede
psyops
travesty
soliloquy et al

Patreon.com

Covid cowards. JTaylor. We don't talk about that anymore

Maronite
Coptic
Assyrian
Anabaptist
Donatist
Gallicism
Ultramontane

A Truss
corset

apparent
apparel

who got the contract 4 the whitewash
spin docs
more journos wk in spin than news

pantomime
punch judy
blackpool
brighton rock

redact
recuse
rubric

black humour
gallows humour
toilet humour
blue humour
off colour humour

sanction
privileges?] committee
privy council
Kings role in NZ govt & UK govt
select committee

partygate

war of attrition
total war
economy of scale

amoeba health risk swim water

garner

Covid-19
Bird flu
Swine flu
BSE new guinea laughing sickness mad cow

hate speech
pickup culture "game"
Political Correctness

pyramid scheme
Ponzi
Bernie Madoff
Amway

etymol torpedo
	robot

andr-oid
	meteoroid

Monica Lewinsky
MN Tag: 15 (minutes of fame)
	90 (mile beach (55 miles))
	Joe 90
	Many young nen of 20
	20/20 vision
	21st bday
	24/7
	7/11
	100 arms giant gk
	Scylla Tenticles
	Jason Dragon's Teeth
	#'s in Irish myth
	V2 missile WW2
	Fatboy Littleboy A Bombs
	Jap Zero fighter
	B 52
	T 72
	Lockheed Martin F-35 fighter jets
	The New Zealand Defence Force's list of aircraft includes the C-130H Hercules, NH90 helicopter and the SH-2G(I) Seasprite helicopter.
	Apache & Iroquois choppers
	AK 47
	Magnum 44
	Colt 45/
	M 16
	AR 15
	16 pounder gun wolfe tones
	Theo-bald
	U 251?] Bon Jove WW2 movie
	Hunt for RED october
	Bluebottle jellyfosh
	Blue man, I'm blue da ba dee song
	10 green bottles sitting on the wall
	4 and 20 blackbirds baked in a pie
	1600 Pensylvania ave
		21a Baker st?
		Harry potter?
		Bag end LOTR?
		10 et al downing st
		NZ
		Oz
		France
	Lomu's number
	Lebron James
	Wilt the Stilt
	Jordan
	Joe Montana
	Bob Hayes
	Sanfran 49ers
	Philly 76ers
	87 crash
	29 defenestration
	COP26
	Covid 19
	G7
	Fortune 500
		D Roman
	Spartan 300
	303 rifle
	Old Yellow
	Black stallion
	Black Beauty
	National Velvet
	Apollo 11
	16 tonnes song
	16 candles song + 1=candle 6=flame
	she was only 16
	Sweet 16
	Summer of 69
	late December back in 63
	10 guitars
	at 17 song
	vietnam 19 song
	Calendar Girl song
	https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Title_50_of_the_United_States_Code
	50 Cent/Shekel
	Einsteinium 99
		3 14 fukup 879
	Dolf 20 ape-ril Cheetah movie mock 89 VaPe
	Route 66
	Highway 59 NZ
	Space X
	200 Foreskins
	Love potion # 9
		Nein
	Dannevirke viking, ? carrot, ... et al around the world
	# floors empire state
	# rooms buckingham palace
	# MP's NZ Parliament
	220 yards chain?
	Fathom 6 foot?
	Cubit
	Goliath height
	Mole
	e
	pi
	Avogadro's no
	Angstrom
	Parsec
	Astronomical Unit
	# moons neptune
	# of apolo missions
	V8
	8 shaped like ant
	8 eta nut
	bluebird chips
	bluebird nashville cafe
	Moh scale
	Beaufort scale
	decibel
	richter
	Freq middle c et al
	Wavelength/Freq each col rainbow
	Model T ford black
	Bobby Brown
	Mr Brown Moo Seuss
	Redstone Minecraft
	Gandalf Grey
	Yellow Peril
		Saffron
	The green man
	Green book movie
	yellow journalism
	Crimson
	Red Rose
	Bye Bye Blackbird jazz
	Many young men of 20
	17 again movie?
	12 guage shotgun
	23 Jim Carrey Tropics
	7 Movie Brad Pitt Kevin Spacey
	24 Kiefer Clock
	27 needle bath
	33 dirty tree
	50 L
	1000 M
		Km, Peta, Yotta...
	Acre, mile, gallon, foot, inch, cubit
	troy ounce
	carat carrot
	Birth stones
	Jubilee gold diamond
		presents for each?
	12 days of Xmas song
	#'s Notre Dame, Pyramids, Sphinx
	#'s Titanic
	Blackthorn stick shillelagh?]
	Barry White
	Greystoke
	Blackfriars
	Colours of Dominicans etc
	Greensleeves
	Pink singer
	Pinkie finger
	The Green Man
	green jealous etc
	Royal Flush
	pts for chess pieces, scrabble wds
	Bridge card game #'s
	Boeing 747
	Tigermoth
	Sopwith Camel
	Red Baron
	X wing fighter
	Tie fighter
	#'s in LOTR, Star Wars, Conan, Star Trek
	Alpha Centauri
	Dog star
	#'s of planets
	Betelgeuse
	Halley's Comet
	Years of solar eclipses
	Uncle V
	Humvee
	Cat 9 lives
	Cat 9 tails
	Back in black ACDC
	Whitey Bolger?]
	Yellowstone Park
	All over Red Rover
	Roger that
	A big 10-4
	SOS Morse
	Beethoven's 5th, 9th
	Bark tree dog Bach
	third turd
	quarter staff, hung-drawn-quartered, give quarter
	eighth pizza Ace? (confise with zero)
	fifth fife
	7 wonders
		fleetwood mac
	half ralph laugh
	7th son
	40 days fasting
	40 years in desert
	10 plagues
	feed 5000
	# horns & crowns of beast
	3 wise men?
	1001 arab nights burton
	birmingham 6 et al
	# of men in famous last stands
	Ali Baba 40 thieves
	roc rock dwayne johnson Sinbad bird
	XXX Vin Diesel
	HHH Wrestler
	A frame Ladder
	Beta test
	C Ceelo Green
	D cup
	E street band, vis e pacman
	F vis f?
	G string, vis g?
	H block
	I dot, eye, i vis candle
	J walk, j vis canon fire ball
	K turn
		K Bar
	L
	M MnM's, vis mountain peaks
	N
	O ring, argsm
	P pee pea
	Q tip, queue line of ppl, chinese hairstyle, snooker stick
	R 18
	S snake, s-bend
	T bone, cup tea
	U blocker, vis magnet
	V for vendetta
	W
	X ray, rated
	Y vis handstand?
	Z sleep
	Alpha male, 1st
	Beta test
	Gamma ray
	Delta dawn, lady (joe cocker), missippi nile, groin, difference
	Epsilon
	Zeta
	Eta nut, eat
	Theta death 9 grant
	Iota
	Kappa
	Lambda wave, lamington?]
	Mu
	Nu
	Xi
	Omicron
	Pi cirvle pie
	Rho ChiRho row
	Sigma sum
	Tau bull?
	Upsilon
	Phi
	Chi
	Psi
	Omega last. Pron?
	Aleph
	Bet
	...
	Vitruvian Man
	Mexican wave
	french kiss
	spanish fly
	go dutch
	dutch courage
	Aussie oz wizard et al
	morocco othello
	Shores of tripoli
	Big red one
	Greek hx/frat
	Turk
	Russian dolls
	Russian roulette
	Purple rain
	German bosch kraut
	Mad dogs englishmen
	French toast
	Yankee Doodle
	Mexican wave
		standoff
	The Italian Job
	French connection
	Brazilian shave
	panama hat
	New york, New york, State of mind
	Tupak LA knows how to party
	Chicago band
	Kansas band. Dorothy oz
	# Teeth
		Muscles
		Bones
			Hand
			Skull
			Foor
		Blood types
		Length colon
	# Letters in diff alphabets
	New York Dolls
	LA Lakers
	# Bridges n Rivers NY
	25 Miles Edwin Starr?]
	26 miles Marathon?
	Friday on my mind animals
	another saturday night cat stevens
	whiskey on a sunday foster allen
	forever tuesday morning mockers
	Manic monday bangles
	I hate mondays boomtown rats
	wednesday's child
	24 blackbirds baked in a pie
	24 Kiefer
	Series named #'s kennedy assassination S King
	20 (thousand) leagues under the sea
	Ascii & unicode interesting #'s
	Code page 1204?
	Error 401
	Ports 80, 1521, 1433...
	Escape velocity
	Terminal velocity
	Gravity Moon Mars...
	# seconds light take get from sun to earth
	Carboy
	6 pack beer abs
	1 Tasi Taze
	Honour Oh no! Ono 6
	Lima Peru 5
	Hang 10
	Ten Taine Randall
	Blackadder
	Queensland reds
	Auckland Blues
	Sacre Bleu
	Red yellow/amber Green light RED 3 TOP 3
	1-23 key event from 2001-2023 as Mn Tag
	# shape
		0	Pirate head eye patch
		1	tower
		2	swan, hanger
		3	seagull, lips, buttocks
		4	yacht
		5	Hook
		6	flame, water drop
		7	Key
		8	Coke, Hour glass, And, Spider, eyes, snowman
		9	Balloon, pacman
	flag colours
		15 cook islands
		4 stars NZ moro
		50 stars USA
			13 stripes
		other flag #'s...
	DC, Marvel chars #
	39 steps
	42 hitchikers?] guide
	4th july 4/7 fireworks
	111 emergency
		911
		999
	Hellboy #'s
	!1 @2 #3 $4...
	6 spider scorpion octopus
	6 ant
	centipede 100
	Dromedary drum 1
	red cross
	8 aid
	9 naan
	7 sven frozen
	10 tent, tanned
	4! golf
	plus fours
	5 fife
	pause paws
	battery bactrian camel
	194 TaPiR
	1491 ToRPeDo
	1492 TuRBiNe
	1490 TuRPS
	5 Brian Lima
	33 Marylyn?] Monroe...
	52 London, 90 or 94? Paris, 27 or 24 New York, 52 or 52 Wellington...
	#'s to letters match on phones
	International dial codes
	www ru russia et al
	104 Taylor Tce
	52? Kotinga St
	183 192 Wilson Hanson
	JK175 SI7267 BAZ450 GEG608 HRA 264?
	020 417 02765
		54481
		55145
		1018
		6486
	PPL's Bdays, Death days, Marriage days...
	48 718 264
	credit card, bank acct
	#'s myth legend hindu buddah islam
	#'s nursery rhymes fables fairy tales
	Tennyson into the valley of death rode the ? hundred
	Movie/bk 4 feathers?
	movie 7 brad pitt
	TV Ghengis Khan 100 eyes
	Martial Arts numbers
	Chap 11 rupt
	K401
	# articles US constitution, Bill of rights
	Commodore 64
		Atari
	When I'm 64 dong
	reture 65?
	640 K mn max old PC
	Shed 5?
	Club 54. Movie
	Stars on 45
	666 Solomon
	Coats of arms
	Mottoes
	National animal, flower, colour
	Anthems
	National Poem
	#'s Famous paintings, sculptures, monuments
	4 rivers Eden Gehon?
	Coins & Notes
	Currency names
	Atomic number, mass
	Elephant remembers
	Mule stubborn
	Fox wily cunning
	owl wize
	eagle eyes
	Dog smell, loyalty
	bear sleep, honey
	sloth lazy
	Pig dirty, greedy
	rat leave sinking ship
	coyote trickster
	Pantheons, myth, legends #'s
	Simpsons Mn tags & #'s
	Anc Greek numerals
		Roman
		Other cultures
	666 in binary, octal, hexadecimal et al
	888, 88 ship sails. Other?
	66, 666 flames
	69 sx, yinyang
	11 legs, horns
	111 terraced houses, crenellated rampart/parapet?, triceratop
	1111 claws, horse legs, temple pillars, birthday candles
	1001 fangs? 101 knife plate fork?
	10 spearman
	1010 unit of spearmen
	333 ?
	80 eyes mouth
	83 eyes moustache
	8 Spider
	8 Hourglass
	96 ?
	444 sails?
	555?
	5 Segway?
	999, 99 balloons?
	222 wardrobe hangers?
	777 pants zip? zippo lighter
	000, 00 Eggs, Humpty Dumpty
	VisionOn
	LH side goats, flames, sinister
	Dexter killer RHS
	Jan Janus face January Jones
	Feb brew fab 4 
	March hare, solds marching flowers spring
	April Ape brilliant, April irimea?]
	May pole, mayday, emergency, Theresa May
	June Juno Seals and crofts jasmine
	July Caesar
	August gust wind, augustus gloop, lion sweden, hot august night neil diamond
	September green day, Septembristsm septic tank, sap
	October revolution, oktoberfest stein lederhosen, toby
	November knife, knave, novo?
	December Xmas, Snow, decimate
		Names 4 in oth langs
		Ides march
	Monday	Moon, Mint
	Tuesday	Mardi Gras, Deuce, Toast
	Wed	Odin, Wedding, Wet
	Thur	Thor, Thunder, Thursday's child
	Fri	Freya? Fry, Robinson Crusoe man friday
	Sat	Saturn, Sitting
	Sun	Sun, rest
		Which days of creation which things created
	RC Calendar days
		Yom Kippur
		Ramadan
		Hindu
		Buddhist
		Zoroastrian
		Pagan
		Chinese
	Chinese, Arab calendars
		Year of dog
	Zodiac signs
		# stars per sign
	12 apostles
	Bks of bible correct/incorrect mn BS
	TMarshall phy Mnemonics
	Body Mnemonics 7 deadly sins
	John Bull
		Coq sportif
		Ru Bear
		Uncle sam/bald (golden?) eagle
		Kiwi	
		Kangaroo
		et al?
	Bull/bear mkt
	in the red/black
	green jealousy
	Tarzan Mn Tags
	Wikip 4 each data in hist
	Wikip 4 each # 1-100
	Royal blue, purple
	10 little indians Agatha Xtie bk, Beegees song
	500 hats bart cubbins
	RC 4give 70*7
	Dimensions noah ark
		ark covenant
		temple
	rained 40 days nights
	born bourne matt damon (RC?)
	Symbols
		Ankh
		Cross
			Celtic
			Maltese
			Jerusalem
		Other religions
		Masc Fem O-> O+
		Math sci symbols
		signs for danger
		Jolly roger
		Peace symbols
		Rainbow
	Song Willie Nelson 7 spanish angels
	Song All y zombies hide y faces. 40 Days & 40 nights
	NeoNzi 14 wds
	14 June is World Blood Donor Day
Mn Frameworks:
	Stories
		Star Wars
		LOTR
	Palaces
		59 Franklyn
		104 Taylor
		WWK's
		Hanson St
		Natlib
		SFX
		Marist Wilton
		SPC
		VUW
		Middle Earth (Map)		
	Journeys
		Tawa
		Wellington
		To Taupo
	PPL Relnships
		Family & Friends
		Wk
		School & Uni
		Famous PPL


strait magellan
cape good hope vs cape horn
cape kidnappers

Ikonoclasm?]
dissolution monasteries
enclosures acts indust rev
cisgendered

Bolsonaro
RC Bugnini mason

Bollard
Bolstered

Lanyard
Mainstay

Jealousy vs envy. V oerson?
myth legend lunchtime
irony sarcasm. Sitn can't be sarc


spring fwd fall back

Ostrich?] head sand bs

Faraday cage. Balloons
	Hitler bday? (gruber goat name?)

PHILOS: A priori and a posteriori
Sine qua non
PHILOS: Kierkegaard
Swedenborg Steiner Montessori
ceteris paribus vs mutatis mutandis
polybius
Jerome
Eusebius
Monophysites
PHILOS: Aristotle? Max 8* differential tween richest & poorest.
PHILOS: Aristotle? Argmt 4 slavery.
PHILOS: Rawls. Fairest soc where ev chooses it b4 knows oplace in it.

parapsychology
preternatural

fissure
crevasse

Montgolfier
1st parachute
	copter/
ornithopter?
	micro?
Jan Miro
Geo Caen
etymol thrombosis
	nostalgia
		homesick?
	neuralgia bowstring?
Tricky plurals
demonyms
	Varsovian
	Venusian
	Muscovite

Argmt: Mri Pron
	Paris or Paree
	Use gutteral when say Arab place names?

Birthday paradox

rapine
Earth magnet field
Background cosmic radiation

etymol ecology
	ecosystem

emolument
Tarpaulin

Pumice

Turnbull coke
turnpike

rolfing
frizt perls
desiderata

oupensky
gurdjieff
	eng sci?

etymol octopus

smoke signal
Croissant false etymol. et al?

MMP
STV
FPP

Pascal's triangle

NZ toonist threat by Hitler WW2?
on top of old smokey

1900 turn of 20C?

Forbes
Gallup
Haylen
NAZDAQ
Dow Jones
NIKEI?]
Gartner
Forrester

heinous
bodacious

stem cells

affluenza
aspirationalism

dongle

languishing
crux
nexus
praxis

party whip

melee

caucus

districts

livery
footman
butler
scullery
pantry

heifer
steer
gelding
et al

hinney
donkey
mule
onager
joey

albeit
heretofore

Backdrop
chaps
chapparal

Today, Calcio Storico is played only once a year, in the celebrations preceding the feast of the patron saint of Florence, San Giovanni, on 24 June.
legionaries, before a battle, played a game similar to Calcio Storico: Harpastum ("forcibly tear apart").
MT Tag: There are four teams in the competition, each of which defends the colors of the historic Florentine districts: Santa Maria Novella (the "Whites"), San Giovanni (the "Greens"), Santo Spirito (the Rossi") and Santa Croce (the "Blues").

municipal
munificent

Schengen area Europe

expunge

pander
monger
costermonger

There is nothing new about revising or even shelving published works in deference to concerns about racism and other bigotries. Nor is there anything wrong with it. In Victorian England, hardly a bastion of political correctness, Charles Dickens changed some language in reprints of Oliver Twist to cut down on references to the villainous Fagin as "the Jew" after a correspondence with a Jewish woman who criticized him for feeding anti-Semitic prejudice. In the 20th Century, a 1939 Agatha Christie novel whose original title is now unspeakable in polite society was reissued just a few years later as Ten Little Indians (And Then There Were None in the United States); the children's counting rhyme on which the title was based was also changed in the text. In Roald Dahl's 1964 classic Charlie and the Chocolate Factory, the Oompa-Loompas working at Willy Wonka's factory were originally African pygmies. Just a few years later, controversy erupted; Dahl ended up agreeing with his critics and replaced the Black workers with pink and golden-haired "dwarvish hippies."

afine
affinity
etymol infinity

Generational sin
	sins of the father
	Generational curse

19C usa ignored copyright like china does now

short straw
boy cried wolf

bestow
festoon

etymol plagiarism

tendentious to the point of distortion

throes

cameo

portfolio
dossier
debrief

cancel culture
book-banning
politically correct
conservatives. centrists and liberals

Micro vs macro evolutn
str vs weak athiest

contiguous
continuous

Whimsy
Whimsical
Lladro
Whimsies
Culture Wars

steadfast
holdfast
stronghold
freehold
foundry

etymol refute

moral majority
silent majority
tyranny of the majority

arbitrary
arbitrate
arbitrage

Max Weber
Auguste Comte?]

untimely

prone
supine
pronation
ecliptic
zenith
azimuth

slate newspaper/magazine
kibosh

Mn Tag: 401 unauthorised

statute of limitations
civil law cases

emolument

List of non white roles played by white actors

raunchy
etymol ranch
peon
hacienda
pueblo rebellion

charcoal
coke
lampblack
carbon black
carbon paper
blueprint
daguerrotype

WCL: Bs of self help
	19C philos behind it
	mid class aspirationalism

WCL: Red cover most education extra to school

GEO: Spitalsfield?]
ETYMPOL Spitfire

Prowess

claytons
delorean

appositely

upbeat
backbeat
reggae beat
downbeat

succumb

made a pass at

pastille
pustule

gig economy

stem cells

colorism—prejudice or discrimination against darker skin tones within the same racial group.

Lebbeus Woods

buffet
smorgasbord

rosacea
gin blossom

Kirk Hammett

butte

Due diligence
duty of care

jk: Stakeholder
	vampire hunter
	steak holder

Yonni

Bible belt
rust belt
beltway

Bioluminescence

metal bands Satanic-chic
heroin chic

USA laws on Pi (Math)

Quick to point the finger and yell "It's the Devil!" like Waterboy's momma

Opex
Capex
Non Disposable Income?

Psychological compartmentalization

Dromgool Surname Definition:
(Celtic) Dweller at the Ridge- Corner [Gaelic and Irish druim, a ridge + cuil, a corner]

https://www.skyatnightmagazine.com/advice/best-free-astronomy-software/
https://listoffreeware.com/best-free-planetarium-software-windows/
https://www.spaceastronomer.com/en/astronomy-software/software-windows
https://fixthephoto.com/best-astronomy-software.html
http://www.astrograv.co.uk/
Stellarium
Celestia

Drake eqn
Bell's Inequality
Greene's thm

cbr spaceship giant wn statue

neologism

Slander/libel
vs dead ppl?
	burden of proof
	reasonable doubt
calumny vs lie
rule of thumb

Transpower distributer monopoly. Tightly regulated
	SOE or Pvt?
		bought tax paid assets 4 song
sly Transrail?]

Gamine
Jejeune

coin a phrase

panama papers
pelican brief
wikileaks
Winebox enquiry winston peters

feigns

renowned

Bifurcate

Star David implies some truth to astrology

Epub revisionist hist Xtn martyrs in Rome exag
RC Argmt can prod be martyr?

apse

Concierge

expiate

interstitial

Status wn thru hist n culture
	celtic exag
	medieval > 19C euop
	Islam?

Tall Poppy Syndrome

Hi Octane
Hifi
Wifi

etymol diligence

Astrolabe
Caduceus
Cadastral

regimen

Synopsis
Synoptic gospels

motley
piebald
mottled
brindled
tabby
tawny
mousey

Father time
mother earth
Ship she

Acrimony

EPUB (Tim Driver recommend) Shackleton	Endurance Alfred lansing

https://cocalc.com/share/public_paths/8b892baf91f98d0cf6172b872c8ad6694d0f7204
	PythonDataScienceHandbook
https://cocalc.com/share/public_paths/31175ede21a7dde06fef576d86be258f36d3e409
	support2/IntroToManifolds
https://cocalc.com/gist/GLMeece/c902a83ddc1aadff95ff1bf4608987af
	master_list_of_logical_fallacies.md
https://cocalc.com/github/sagemathinc/cocalc
https://cocalc.com/share/public_paths/11b4974e1e2ab60cd58ee05e9ffc59f95b849941
	codes.ipynb

berm verge

Litvienko polonium poisoning

climactic
climatic
jk silent c
	2nd one
climactic climatic crisis

mayhem
poltroon
nincompoop?]

clammy
camber

Muh-HAHAHAHAHAHAHAHA

Bromide
Canard

stock photo
stock car racing
demolition derby

oubliette

qualms
queazy?]

Marianas trench
	deepest?

pleasantries

(Etymol) Handguns, Tequila & Excel

RC in north of eng
Suffering of RC under Hen 8

ostentatious
Hustle culture

Grognards

Gilded age
	youth

ramification

whippersnappers Gen Z (aged 13-24), but the barely sentient Generation Alpha (ages 0-12).
delineate

NZ 1960's crims machine gun murders

basking

Eva Mendes

www.allfreenovel.com

Not sure if you know this, but when Satan lived as an Angel, he went by the Hebrew word הֵילֵל, transliterated hêylêl – or pronounced hay-lale. When translated into English it is the world Lucifer, which is the same word used for the planet Venus. The word Lucifer connotes the meaning “light-bringing,” or morning star. And in Second Corinthians 11:14, it says, “And no marvel; for Satan himself is transformed into an angel of light.” 

ideal fem body thru cultures & hist
	ratio ne changes?
	that which shows $ is valued eg fat in poor culture, gym toned in rich, pale in aristocracy or dark ppl & vice versa
male?

regenerative agriculture
productivist agriculture
Regenerative agriculture is seen as an antidote to business-as-usual or productivist approaches that use fertilisers, pesticides, and other chemicals to drive relentless increases in productivity (productivism). 
I am not a regenerative agriculturalist, but I teach about the regenerative challenge to productivist agriculture students. I know there is a science to regenerative agriculture, just as there is an ideology to the complete set of interests and arrangements that we know as ‘science’.

deluxe

denunciation

emaciated

prissy
sashay

touchpoint
touchstone

Notre-Dame de Bon-Espoir (Our Lady of Good Hope)

astringent
astigmatism
etymol stigma
stig of the dump

Kids bks
	stig of the dump
	WW1/WW2 sfx library
		indian legends
	knights attack ants n lose

stipulated

injunction
stoush

defeatest

recidivist
rescind
cinder
ember
conniving

Martina Hingis did not beat her opponents on the tennis courts thanks to her physical play. The tennis star admits that the mental aspect is also important in tennis: "Tennis is not only about physical ability, it is also about mental strength. You have to be able to stay focused, stay calm and stay positive, even when the going gets tough," Martina Hingis once told Forbes.

hospice

Bartolomeo?] de las Casas?]

rebate

ne talk politics relign

Mn tag missing Malaysia Airline Flight 370

spittoon
vomitorium

prismatic powder coating

app: Stellarium
	Celestia
	google ocean, Moon, Mars et al

Northwest passage
Onedin?] Line
When the boat comes in
Mayor of casterbridge

origin of 7 day week
	how many cultures ne had it?

transient

Aim 4 A get B
ne aim 4 be 1st dub (Job Title). Aim be best ever. Fail at that still success

in past wn smiths?

https://www.msn.com/en-nz/news/national/m%C4%81ori-leaders-call-on-king-charles-nz-govt-to-reject-doctrine-of-christian-discovery/ar-AA1cqnG3?ocid=entnewsntp&cvid=03cfb75bd34f4c6491897b92f43b175b&ei=13
a legal concept Pope Nicholas V first pushed through in 1452 as a justification for colonisation.
The Doctrine of Christian Discovery was issued 317 years before Captain James Cook set foot in Aotearoa New Zealand and 190 years before Abel Tasman and his crew became the first Europeans to lay eyes on it.

OCR	Official Cash Rate
CPI	Consumer Price Index

codec

match fix worst form cheating cos fundmental sport is try win

Edinburgh?] Tattoo
Trooping the Colour

appalled
pall of smoke
pall mall
pallbearer

Canada mass graves indg LIDAR ne cadaver
	accusn is ConspThy CSPTH ne denial

Hist of capital letters, punctuation, full stops, new lines
carriage return New line
Languages devolve?

stoush
reprobate
reprove

panorama
diorama

Investigative journalism over
Seymore Hersh
Pilger
Fisk
Chris Hedges?

PHIL Wittgenstein filler wds "y kno" etc
	"punctuators"

Drudge Report
Alex Jones Infowars

Consp theory false dichotomy

Rorshash?] blot test

antiseptic vs disinfectant
sepsis

follicle

the cult of Linkedin

df classic car
	vintage car
	muscle car

overreach
acuity

cantilever

acidulous

etymol calling dibs
plum pud

fissure

dearth

Eiraboo
Eiriboo?

stilted

judicious

Cyrano de Bergerac

spelt

ramshackle

supercar

banal. Pron
Bland ne necess bad
blandishments

Deadline Friday means get in before or on Friday

Walter Mondale?

amok

sleuth
clue
skien?]

MEETING: Interject. Thanks, Matt, as you were.

proposal
provisional

SIEM

augment
augur
unaugural

philander
canoodle

under the auspices of

eavesdrop
gable
loft
attic

RC angelos smalltalk, humour?

chinese spy balloon ovr usa 2023
chinese got ua stealth bomber 202?
gary powers spyplane

garner

lockstep

john.newell@datacom.co.nz

nexus
praxis

physiogomy
historiography

peregrination

defunct

peregrine falcon
peregrination

Belated

Animus

was Pegasus unique?

2 WIKIP:
false flag
	poland germany
flag of convenience
philipino?] islam pirates
Dutch 1600's shipwreck marooned achv
Passion play
monmouth rebellion
commedia del arte
rigoletto
don juan
deposition
cornish wreckers
bullion
silk road
Puritan
Mennonite
British east india company
	dutch
	et al
	west india co?
slave insurrection in colonial America
race riots
prison riots
20/21st c piracy and banditry
ISIS/Dauesh
Yezedi
Kurds
Mongol empire
Saladin?]
book burning
prohibition
hist of narcotics
index librorum
censorship
propaganda
goebbels
aesop fable
fairy tale
myths
legends
pantheons
folk tales
urban legends
1st detective story. vs mystery
nursery rhyme
riddle
hist of copywrite?]
GOLDEN AGE Spain
GOLDEN AGE Comics
	Comic code
list of Moral panics
GOLDEN AGE Pirates
	Dan Defoe
Phil Spector
Jeff Dahlmer?]
Plato gold silver bronze ppl, philos merchant warrior kings
greeks wrongdoing all down to upbringing
Guild

Bipartisan

The Brits sent 13,000 British and Indian troops to rescue them, in what became known as the British Expedition to Abyssinia. Emperor Tewodros II then took his own life after being defeated by the British in 1868.

pernicious

Math: Compound Interest

fodder
fallow
fecund
cud
ruminate
ruminant

In 1880's Britain, a "dude" was basically a high-class dandy—a person with a particular appearance and mannerisms.

befriend

albeit
lithe

The Israeli sayeret special forces

Paul Coehlo?] the alchemist

nuanced

drawl
twang
patois
argot
cant
accent

effete

penumbra
umbra

Denouement

JK: 1Line: much as I love...

jk: "Near-death experience on 3! 1… 2…" 

thursday, thursday week
nothing there? ans - Y or No

IMAGE:
Henry Every Mughal

Dilettante?]

SJ Q: ancients know earth round?
simply dental Tawa college
http://www.tawadental.com/
	80+ checkup
	20 per xray. up to 4 xrays
	hygienist+checkup 150 upwds

NLP
CBT
Feldenkrais Tawa

SELF: OPUS: Ne overthot it. 80% is OK

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hamster_%26_Gretel
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/DC_League_of_Super-Pets

Data visn pples
	# colors
	colorblindness

where are ms teams recordings stored?
	retention?

home strait/straight?

Gutenberg
Caxton
Tyndale
RC Bible banned?

Dick Whittington
	Shark painting?

HIPAA

TEC
	onenote
	list requirements
	what not needed
	what needs adding
	is data model correct
	do we have data
	contact ppl
	status nth built

https://www.rstudio.com/products/rstudio/download/#download
Change kaggle pw
access my service desk tickets
databricks cert
VPN
ask reception health checks (free)
procipio courses datacom site
Do we have any shared EPV enterprise pw vaultask nasca if data available for TEC
	ZDONE nasca ask project code tec openair
	ZDONEnasca ask project code tec openair PRESALES
	ZDONEmocatad
	ZDONEtimesheet clone
	ZDONEpreesales. nonbillable. check nasca for timecode. read the docs
===========================================================================================================
Change Amazon pw

TEC:
Jake Rose > and Tarun expert in Azure

timesheets:
https://datacom.docebosaas.com/learn/course/587/play/3782/accessing-openair
	https://datacomunity.sharepoint.com/
		Austrailia and NZ Tools->->NZ Tools->Openair

Kaggle Team w Tarun, Theta Sidarth?]?

Databricks
Hosting weekly planning 1/8/22
	next
scribe takes notes
1. datacademy
2. procipio
	ZDONEhow contact service desk
List from Steven Rose of stuff to do


ZDONEmocatad

toastmasters
80 azure 15 aws 5 gcp foodstuffs
1st cert aws dev n architect associate
udemy
pearson vue


Docking station?
	power enuf
	ZDONEmocatad
	ZDONEazure sandbox

Ajay.G@bespoketraining.com

“You always doubt, but you have to have the mental skills to get back into the present, the moment.

“It is a really positive step, we always felt the team was going in the right direction. Sometimes results don’t reflect that,” Jones told Sky Sports.

“It is like training a racehorse. We don’t want to be at our best until the World Cup finals; we need to keep building the base, the depth, the competition and our style of play. We are in a good position.”

Remediation
reductionism

https://www.anquotes.com/st-augustine-quotes/#:~:text=%20St.%20Augustine%20Quotes%20%201%20%E2%80%9CFaith%20is,everything%20depended%20on%20God.%20Work%20as...%20More%20
His original Latin name is Aurelius Augustinus, he is known to be called Saint Augustine of Hippo but many of us know him simply as Saint Augustine (St. Augustine). He was born on November 13, 354 in Tagaste, Numidia. Then he was the bishop of Hippo from 396-430. St. Augustine had written two important works, The City of God (c. 413–426) and Confessions (c. 400).

configure
configurate?

authenticate
not authentificate

df: abstract

temperature in Kelvin

etymol alias

economies of scale

Hecuba

debacle

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Stefan_Banach

dissipate

ada lovelace
babbage

Daemn lack sth we have cos can't je give us sci/tech

Bill of materials

steeped
tincture

per se

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Drude_model

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Drudge_Report

drudge factor. Paint by #s vs creatives

surmise

in vitro

OCaml

broach
brooch
roach


IHS jesus in Gk
PX Chi Rho
Isches
INRI


https://www.etymonline.com/word/venial
venial (adj.) c. 1300, "pardonable," from Old French venial "pardonable, excusable" (13c.) and directly from Late Latin venialis "pardonable," from Latin venia "forgiveness, indulgence, pardon,
Venal

gmail SMTP server

Bogomils

tristam shandy?]

billy bunter
flashman

biggles

hornblower

radix
radical

digitalboost.co.nz

hiatus

holistic
iterative
synergy
heuristic

rule of thumb

economy of scale

etymol optimize
spell optimize optimise

factotum
emanuensis?]

etymol enterprise

idempotently
increment
inclement

Declination is a wd?

etymol opaque
translucent
refraction
reflection

outlier

John Jane Doe
John Smith
Jean Dupont

napper tandy

philander
philuter

plethora

https://www.codingdojo.com/blog/three-full-stacks

ASUS Motherboards and Video cards with i7 Processors
x86
64 bit
pentium
640K ram
intel v amd chip
kray cp power
mainframe power

LARP
DILAD
LASER

rapprochement

rarefied

detente
entente

RAVENOUS

inception

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Modernism
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Modernism_(disambiguation)
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Modernism_in_the_Catholic_Church
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Fundamentalist%E2%80%93Modernist_controversy
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Literary_modernism
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Interior_monologue

it would look like the Capsian Sea. Yes, the Caspian is a lake despite the “sea” in the name!

Caspian
Aral

deserts can have small, temporary lakes,

delineation

disinterested
uninterested
disillusionment drane

antithetical

ancillary

amalgamation

semantic

elixir vie east
phil stone west

mutatis mutandis

cavort

Lysenko
Big bang founder
Lamarck

docking station can sap too much power from laptop

shill

ratify

First plesiosaur skeletons
English fossil collector Mary Anning (1799–1847) made a remarkable discovery in 1826: the near-complete fossilized skeletons of two plesiosaur skeletons—the first ever found! Pictured is the note book in which she recorded the priceless finds.

verve

albert speer

Basotho blankets

contravening

https://www.msn.com/en-nz/news/national/picking-us-one-by-one-models-at-video-shoot-ambushed-raped-at-gunpoint/ar-AA10cOns?ocid=entnewsntp&cvid=a880744563014663a2d756573ed98c09

https://www.msn.com/en-nz/news/other/the-great-resignation-why-millions-quit-their-jobs-in-2021/ss-AAQTqAC?ocid=entnewsntp&cvid=a880744563014663a2d756573ed98c09#image=1
"The Great Resignation" was coined by Texas A&M University psychologist Anthony Klotz

jilted

salacious

64 bit vs 32 bit vs ARM

disabuse
disadvise?

skeleton key

MN: pool ball col/nos as mn tags
	dart board
	golf
	https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Novena
	https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pentecost#Etymology
	sports team colours
	national flag cols/symbolism
		15 cooks
	4 n 20 blackbirds
	ads
		moro 4th best
	company logo mitsubishi/subaru? # stars
	# stars in constellations
	zodiac signs
	morse code
	semaphore
	beethoven's 5th morse
	opening notes to tunes as #'s
	semibreve, octave, quaver
	Me 101
	sopwith camel
	1st aid
	triage
	F17 fighter
	Mig?
	T-72 tank

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Deuterocanonical_books
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Biblical_apocrypha

1up maybe term use when ne kno

remonstrate

Council vs. Counsel—What’s the Difference? Shundalyn Allen. Grammar. A council is a group of people convened for advice or consultation. Counsel means advice or instruction. Counsel and council are confusing words.
Council vs. Counsel —What’s the Difference? | Grammarly
www.grammarly.com/blog/council-counsel/

How do you spell counsel or council? Counselcan be used as a verb or a noun, whereas counciland consul are nouns. Counselas a verb means to advise; as a noun, it means the person doing the advising (such as an attorney) or the advice itself.
【solved】How to spell counsel - How.co
fundare-kringle.netlify.app/ht/query-how-to-spell-counsel-75737/

Kringle

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Joan_Mir%C3%B3
Joan Miró i Ferrà (/mɪˈroʊ/ mi-ROH,[1] US also /miːˈroʊ/ mee-ROH,[2][3] Catalan: [ʒuˈam miˈɾo j fəˈra]; 20 April 1893 – 25 December 1983) was a Spanish painter, sculptor and ceramicist born in Barcelona. A museum dedicated to his work, the Fundació Joan Miró, was established in his native city of Barcelona in 1975, and another, the Fundació Pilar i Joan Miró, was established in his adoptive city of Palma in 1981.

Auguste?] Rodin
Henry more

Phil Eng Ayer

Alex Jones
System of a Down


5:51
NOW PLAYING

Responsive Spontaneity Intuitive Drawing Workshop wit
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Zk6IYkp1gvM

Weekly retro:
what goal was accomplished

Sod's Law
Pareto ppl
Taylor's Law
2nd law thermodynamics
Murphy's Law. Wiki n further refs

https://www.linkedin.com/in/alistair-young-655836137/?originalSubdomain=nz

Etymol Monica
Etymol Moniker

https://www.howtogeek.com/234817/dont-worry-wi-fi-isnt-dangerous/

mouse pup

https://www.washingtonpost.com/national/health-science/study-finds-that-fear-can-travel-quickly-through-generations-of-mice-dna/2013/12/07/94dc97f2-5e8e-11e3-bc56-c6ca94801fac_story.html

seratonin
melatonin
dopamine

pituitary
pinneal?]

cARTEL
Vert/Horiz monopoly
divvy up market n ne compete
NW/Coundown?

Paragon

untenable

helmsman
helmet
Hell

versatile

Heist

droll

Jk. Mri gift want it bk

A plus 1

Mary Beard

provisional

née
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Alderman
municipal
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Watson_and_the_Shark
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Category:Black_people_in_art
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Category:Maritime_paintings
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Category:Sharks_in_art
Raft of the Medusa

Formaldehyde

at face value

The Defense Language Aptitude Battery

the Big Red One

corral

Karens
Staceys
Chads

meticulous

bludgeoned

strewn

chomping at the bit

Gilded
Gilded youth
Gilded age

bawdy

disclaimer

attrition

Turing complete query language

4GL

Kellogg Briand

disparate

R Shiny, Python Shiny, python dash or flask or go revel and beego

tyro
derby

longshoreman
stevedore

At swim 2 bds

John Haigh (the "Acid Bath Murderer")

worst novel ever

List of hist milit night attacks

Bodkin arrows 

floundering 
aftermath

Prelude

encroached
---------
Prey | Premieres on Friday, Aug. 5 on Hulu

Plot: Set in the Comanche Nation 300 years ago, Naru, a skilled female warrior, fights to protect her tribe against one of the first highly-evolved Predators to land on Earth.
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Comanche#History
300y?
---------

didactic
autodidact
polymath

reciprocity

Manatu hauora

the nub

Bonnie Prince charlie

Jacobite James

fentanyl

trickle-down economics
zero sum game

Maxim

Open Source address data from LINZ

Propellorhead?]
Spinner

Collide
Elide
allude
clue
skein

Grim Reaper

Self actualization

Pinoy

backbenchers

https://www.msn.com/en-nz/sports/other/joyless-and-quite-flat-losing-streak-for-all-blacks-could-be-good-for-us-making-the-wins-actually-mean-more/ar-AA10xqg9?ocid=entnewsntp&cvid=27dfce7f66514685801cddb8ce66a39d
	"Having competition makes it more exciting as a spectator," said one All Blacks fan. 
	"It's always good to watch the Kiwis get bashed," another said.
	And Lynch thinks losing might even help our mental health.
	“I think a lot of that comes back to the fear of losing is greater than the joy of winning."
	Lynch added when the All Blacks are just another team struggling like everyone else, "the wins actually mean more".
	"They're not expected, that they don't bring relief, they bring joy."

dank
acrid

mired

the top turnbuckle (WWF)

to demark each

pristinely

lull
lullaby

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Knight_of_the_Garter
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Knight_banneret
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Second_Cornish_uprising_of_1497

contingent


https://blog.emojipedia.org/microsoft-teams-3d-fluent-emojis/
https://support.microsoft.com/en-us/office/view-all-available-emojis-b9c2ccda-9ad9-4dbb-a25d-bbcebf6311ae

Legend vs myth
whitewash
slate

etymol jeopardy
etymol etymol

at loggerheads
stint

upbeat
downbeat
backbeat
beat poets
hip

performance
leeway
in the lee of
leeward

computational biologist 

myriad
tirade

National MP Sam Uffindell asked to leave Auckland's King's College after violent nighttime attack on younger student
There were the high-profile departures of MPs Hamish Walker, who leaked COVID-19 patient details to media, and Andrew Falloon, who sent unsolicited sexually explicit images to young women.
There was also Jake Bezzant, who left the party last year after serious allegations emerged from an ex-girlfriend.

jackknifed
peddle influence

contumely?]

counterpoint

Backfill
Backhoe

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Alessandro_Scarlatti
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Domenico_Scarlatti

shackles
manacles
leg irons

cameo

turnstile

brazen
cavalier attitude

destitute
borefest

Tom A Kempis

prevalent

as the Roman Philosopher Seneca is attributed to have said, “Luck is when preparation meets opportunity.”

allure
velour

persist layer

divulge

ebb-and-flow

secreting 

Kaimahi

Steven Fry, and his 2017 book, Mythos, the Greek myths retold.
The last post

polyglot

hoax
piltdown

dolly the sheep
lucy
dub eve
hobbit early humans indonesia

notary
notarize
apothecary
scrivener

per se

CSI BECAUSE IT'S COOL

convene
convenient

Volare



Pundit

Caucus
House speaker
party whip

A maul (tool)
caul

phrase: "boil the ocean"

Koan: sound one hand clapping
tree fall forest noone hear?
quantum observer

starburst
low hag fruit
swings roundabout
dripfeed

shout fire crowded theatre ok if fire

monkey off back
personal demon

got a reality cheque that bounced

barking up wrong tree

Caucus

Phaidon

Vitruvius

Mothballed

Movie: Thank You for Smoking

cadaverous 
hiccoughs 
mirth

spry

admonish

stent
stentorian

https://www.rhymezone.com/r/d=vagile
Definitions of vagile:
adjective:   having freedom to move about
Example: "Vagile aquatic animals"
It includes many vagile inbenthic species of normal salinity seawater.
vagary?

supple, lithe, limber

febrile

Raytheon

phaser
maser
laser

The High Frequency Active Auroral Research Program (HAARP) military facility in Alaska

manipulating the weather through the use of techniques such as 'cloud seeding.'

RMP Bomb
Neutron bomb

debilitating

AI neuromorphic chip

Giddyap
Hey
Mush
Whoah

tsk tsk

shebang

etymol caucasian

emblazoned

generally mossbacked approach

pearshaped

to right the listing ship

Ship of fools
Barque of st pete

pundits

coalesce
evanescent

bioluminescence

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Everyman

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Comptroller

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Recidivism

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Military_dictatorship
	Junta
	Putsch

Louche

snap election

Bollards
catharsis
bathetic

precinct

Polymath

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/English_Midlands
df cockney big ben?

foreboding

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Limited_series_(comics)
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Moral_ambiguity
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Watergate_scandal
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Nonlinear_narrative
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Category:Nonlinear_narrative_novels
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Category:Political_satire_books
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Category:Satirical_comics

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ship-of-the-Line_Captain
Merchant Navy

https://www.msn.com/en-nz/news/national/a-very-dire-situation-m%C4%81ori-man-living-in-ukraine-on-why-he-joined-the-fight/ar-AA10WJ37?ocid=entnewsntp&cvid=001967eb3bd04119ac968d96be32ef1c
"In a lot of the townships, there is sort of like a community that's been torn in half. You've got a lot of Ukrainians that really believe in Ukraine and they just want to see the war done, and then you've got all these other people that almost can almost be a part of the village or the town that is working to actually want Russia to win.

shrapnel

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Alter_ego

psychadelic?]
psychotropic

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Kill_Van_Kull
Kill Van Kull translates as "channel of the pass" or "ridge". Nearby is the Arthur Kill, the name of which is an Anglicization of the Dutch achter kill meaning "back channel", referring to its location "behind" Staten Island.

Dutch Colonial Era
Dutch Spanish war

Spam

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pastiche

trappings
trencherman

moniker

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Patronymic
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Strabo
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Grimnismal
	Edda
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Trade_paperback_(comics)

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Sorcerer_(cave_art)
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cave_painting
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Human_sacrifice
	Cannibalism

Hist evidence of Gato mite

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_apocalyptic_films
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_adjectival_and_demonymic_forms_of_place_names

Imbue
Imogen
Tristam Isolde
Tristam Shandy

Jejeune

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wolverine
 Gulo gulo (Gulo is Latin for "glutton"), also referred to as the glutton, carcajou, or quickhatch (from East Cree, kwiihkwahaacheew), is the largest land-dwelling species of the family Mustelidae.

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Honey_badger
Mellivora capensis

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Badger
Badgers are short-legged omnivores in the family Mustelidae (which also includes the otters, wolverines, martens, minks, polecats, weasels, and ferrets).

Badgers are a polyphyletic rather than a natural taxonomic grouping, being united by their squat bodies and adaptions for fossorial activity. 

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Polyphyly
A polyphyletic group or assemblage is a set of organisms, or other evolving elements, that have been grouped together based on characteristics that do not imply that they share a common ancestor that is not also the common ancestor of many other taxa

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Fossorial
A fossorial (from Latin fossor 'digger') animal is one adapted to digging which lives primarily, but not solely, underground. Some examples are badgers, naked mole-rats, clams, meerkats, and mole salamanders,[1] as well as many beetles, wasps, and bees.

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Caniformia
Caniformia is a suborder within the order Carnivora consisting of "dog-like" carnivorans. They include dogs (wolves, foxes, et.), bears, raccoons, and mustelids.[1] The Pinnipedia (seals, walruses and sea lions) are also assigned to this group. The center of diversification for the Caniformia is North America and northern Eurasia. Caniformia stands in contrast to the other suborder of Carnivora, the Feliformia ("cat-like" carnivorans), the center of diversification of which was in Africa and southern Asia.

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Snowmelt

Cats originate Egypt?
Manx cat

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Competent_man
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Stock_character

Character Actor
Matinee idol
Box office

Mikael?] Lermontov?]

camille paglia

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Racism_in_the_work_of_Charles_Dickens

Pastiche
Vignette
Synobsis
Abstract

Mottos or Mottoes

supernal?
suborn
subaltern

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Disney_and_LGBT_representation_in_animation

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_English_words_without_rhymes

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_black_animated_characters

Ivan Moneybags
John A Lee Delinquent (etymol) Days

Greenham Common

Wombles

ETYMOL:
Paladin?]
Polygon
Scalene
Skeleton
paragon

Contextualization

curare medicine
quinine?]

curator
chair manus

nuance

etymol aggregate

flock

interim
meanwhile
high noon

speaking to these things

panacea
cornucopia
pandemonium

Mn
401K
chapt 11 rupt
Title ??
Laws mn pegs
psalm 23

https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/sql/sql-server/install/configure-the-windows-firewall-to-allow-sql-server-access?view=sql-server-ver15
netsh.exe

Exception prove/test rule
	50 proof oh

using her deadname (name before transitioning)

informed consent

Expedite
Expedient

security detail

Andrey Bulatov?]

silence denote consent

Hypatia

cognisant
it's not my wheelhouse

heuristic
iteration

Realme.govt.nz?

Warren Buffett quipped “you don't find out who's been swimming naked until the tide goes out”.

frolick

fixated

symptom

paddock
paddy wagon

coalesce

the multinational fighting unit called the Dark Angels of Ukraine

Dais

I bet that made y feel real clever

crank handle car
linked list programming construct

catchment
aquifer
groundswell
groundwater
water table

cachet

For example, financial year 2023 is the 12-month period ending on 30 June 2023 and can be referred to as FY2022/23. It is used for official purposes, by individual taxpayers and by the overwhelming majority of business enterprises.
Fiscal year - Wikipedia
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Fiscal_year


non-commissioned officer

roman centurian posn could be bought
earned 100* ordinary sold?

Jackie Gleeson

how 2 intrrupt so wo being rude
how look like y interested

MN TAG:
Names & places (+etymol) as mn tags
toolbox tools sly

fanboy

oracle vs sql server

informatica umbrella term like microsoft & SAS. Many products.

fawning

earned y stripes
	epaulettes or scourge marks (cat 9 tails (mn tag))

birmingham 6, famous 5... mn tags. # conspirators or members of last stand

melding

what y look at y hit. Car lampost, striker goalie

dynamo

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/1272_Gefion

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Worshipful_Company_of_Cordwainers
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Order_of_Assassins

succinct

prob w gcp
	snowflake features rolled out
		aws 1
		azure 2
		gcp 3
ggl drops products
	mgr leads team build it then leaves
		hi $ outside
		or inside ggl
		or burnout ne work 15h days
	ne culture of support
	too meey so ezier 2 drop?

dysentery and diphtheria

Marie Celeste
Flying dutchman
	scotsman

using the name Tolkien while fighting on the Eastern front.
	nom de guerre

harrowing
arrowgate

concur heartily

summit meeting

spiel
spillover

embargo
intransigent

dead letter
dead rubber
test cap
rain cheque?]

yellow peril

scallywag
tallywhacker

stifle

franchise

Praxis

Flemish

Eighty Years' War (1568-1648)
The Eighty Years' War, otherwise known as the Dutch War of Independence, saw the Netherlands struggle to break free from Spanish rule. Finally, in 1648, Spain's Philip II relinquished control of the Seventeen Provinces—the imperial states of the Hapsburg Netherlands. Pictured is the November 1576 sacking of Antwerp  by the Spanish Army.

tetrarchy?

Anglo-Zanzibar War,1896
In just 38 minutes, the Anglo-Zanzibar War of August 27, 1896 was declared, fought, and won by forces of the British Empire against the Zanzibar Sultanate. It's the shortest war in history.

Apache-Mexico Wars (1600s–1915)
The Apache-Mexico Wars began in the 1600s with the arrival of Spanish colonists in present-day New Mexico. The conflict reached a bloody zenith in the mid-19th century when it coincided with the Apache Wars of the United States. After 400-years-plus, peace was finally achieved in 1901, though Mexico continued to operate against hostile Apache bands as late as 1915.

Korean War (1950–1953)
While relatively short, the Korean War was exceptionally bloody, claiming nearly five million lives, over half of which were civilians. Fighting ended on July 27, 1953, and an armistice agreement signed. However, no peace treaty was ever signed, and the two Koreas are technically still at war.

Suez Crisis

Philippines speak eng cos usa made it so post 1898

Hermione
Phryne

Will Smith, IQ 157

Bill Gates, IQ 160
From the world of cinema we move to the world of business. Bill Gates has an IQ of 160 points: a 'genius.'

Elon Musk, IQ 165
When it comes to innovation, Elon Musk scores high marks. The famous founder of Tesla and SpaceX has an IQ of 165.

Steve Jobs, IQ 160
The same goes for Steve Jobs, who died in 2011 following a serious illness. The founder of Apple had the IQ of a 'genius': 160.

Mark Zuckerberg, IQ 152
From Apple to Facebook. The founder of the most famous social network in the world, Mark Zuckerberg, has an IQ of 152 points.

Marilyn vos Savant, IQ 186
Marilyn vos Savant is an essayist and columnist known worldwide for being one of the smartest people on the planet. She has an IQ of 186!

Stephen W. Hawking, IQ 169
Now let's turn to science with a few famous geniuses. The late English physicist Stephen Hawking had an IQ of 169.

Albert Einstein, IQ 160
He contributed to a new conception of space and time. Albert Einstein had an IQ of 160, according to iqcertificate.org.

Nikola Tesla, IQ 189
The highest IQ on the list is that of Nikola Tesla, a scientist and inventor who contributed to the development of AC motors and other innovations. His IQ was 189 points!

vaunted

vaughn?] williams

mired

Song for the Myra

rectify

halfback

second-guessing

Daimoniguge

ngninx

flabbergasted

piqued

frisson

etymol plethora

hedging

D Argmt hitler influential

press gang
General belgrano sinking
keel haul
cat o 9 tails

RMS Lusitania
The attacked helped turn the US against Germany, but years later a key fact was discovered. The ship was also carrying munitions: something that was not confirmed by the British government until 2004.

Havana harbour imcident 1898?
Gulf tonkin
name of false flag polish casus belli 1939

polish russ war 1920

Span armada # ships sank by eng
	who aim invade?
Longbow efficacy

galleon

rogue sea waves
	quantum

Sackcloth and ashes
hair shirt
hirsute
methods of mort of flesh

self abnegate
self efface
	et al

self abasement

bow
curtsey
kowtow
et al

salaam

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Grapeshot

circuit breaker

when you don't create things, you become defined by your tastes rather than ability. your tastes only narrow & exclude people. so create.
― Why The Lucky Stiff

insolent

anecdotes

casket

gasket

pallbearers

pall of smoke
apalled?]

(sic)
ibid
[]

copped the name
copped a fine

Gird Loins
https://www.bibletools.org//index.cfm/fuseaction/Topical.show/RTD/cgg/ID/19456/-Gird-up-loins-your-mind.htm
I Peter 1:13 and James 1:22 provide sound counsel about what must be done to eliminate the accusations of a loose tongue. I Peter 1:13 charges us to, “Gird up the loins of your mind,” and James 1:22 adds, “But be doers of the word, and not hearers only, deceiving yourselves.” Remaining focused on achieving the goal set before us to follow through in obedience to God will meet the responsibility of paying all our vows to God.

Ecclesiastes 5:1-7
What the Bible says about " Gird up the loins of your mind" (From Forerunner Commentary) Ecclesiastes 5:1-7 The main issue of his counsel is not the number of words we say, though we are cautioned to be neither rash nor hasty, so our words should be few. Rather, the main thrust of his counsel lies in verses 4-7.

The Bereans "received the word with all readiness, and searched the Scriptures daily to find out whether these things were so" (Acts 17:10-11).

https://www.bibletools.org/index.cfm/fuseaction/Bible.show/sVerseID/17399/eVerseID/17405/
Hypocrisy is misrepresenting who and what

Arsenal
	club
	etymol

Counterspin Media

fallout
hard rain
acid rain
Heavy water

Steve Bannon

mn tag 22 noon

Brietbart
Chinese dissident billionaire Guo Wengui

S jobs
	meetings
		6 ppl max. No1 not involved
		.5 hr

Meetings
	zoom fatigue
		ne see self on screen
		5 mins tween meetings

formosa
dipthong
gerund
glottal stup
subjunctive
aorist
locative

attested

Daniel Dennett?]

sabbatical
	etymol

flimsy

lambasting

reiterated

a party 'hack'

df: far right

spruik

postulates
falsehood

manifesto

coroner

portfolio
digital twin

The government-funded online safety organisation Netsafe

democidal

castigate

grassroots

Balmoral?]
Mountbatten?]

The group, which comprises Convoy 2022 NZ, Freedom Alliance, NZ Doctors Speaking Out with Science, the Outdoors & Freedom Movement, the Freedom and Rights Coalition and Voices for Freedom

open letter

Wood Diaphragms
Shear Walls

N hamlin union pinko

select committee

working group

free trade agreemt bs

broma
brodifacoum?]

cadence
credenze
cadenza?

arbalest

litigious

culprit

etymol whelm

https://www.dictionary.com/e/word-of-the-day/
WORD OF THE DAY
intramundane
adjective
[in-truh-muhn-deyn, -muhn-deyn ]
existing or occurring within the material world.

Blackpowder (vs gunpowder?):?
Saltpetre
Sulphur
Charcoal

lampblack

Mariana?] trench

https://www.sqlchick.com/entries/2016/1/10/why-you-should-use-a-ssdt-database-project-for-your-data-warehouse

persist tables temporal

hypervizor
advisor
vizor?]

Hell
Overwhelm
Helmsman
Helmet
Hellion
Hellhound
Hellcat

Scullion
Scullery
Pantry


anonym

pseudonym
sobriquet
nom de guerre
nom de plume
alias

Arabia haunted
	Xt go desert found diabl

subsidiary

champing at the bit

contiguous

influencer

once the benchmark of jaw-dropping idiocy

parlayed

deplorables

progeny

skulk

shore up

Confucious

Dunning-Kruge
punditry

Ownä brand of folk wisdom

Nagios
Microsoft Azure Defender

Defense in depth

perforce
percolate

locative

login or logon?

Principal
Principle
service Principal or Principle?

Mn Tag
	QAnon
	8Chan

1up
not now
y r now permit dicere
when hand out 	 allow (SC)

dickering
haggle
bedraggle
gaggle
gander

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/COVID-19_misinformation
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Robert_W._Malone
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cease_and_desist
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/COVID-19_misinformation
mass formation psychosis

Mount Sinai
Mt Tabor
Mt Olives
Temple Mount
Mt Ararat

conniving

Tova O'Brien
	attack techniques
	TV series Bull

Their bell cow
bellweather

JK 1L:
there's hope 4 y yet Lenny

donkey
mule
hinney
borrough
whelp
gosling
mustang
baby kangaroo

black hole
white hole (antimatter)

PPL uniformity nature

phys dep Ntn expand till snap

purportedly

https://www.ndtv.com/offbeat/the-real-story-behind-this-viral-pic-shared-by-kiran-mazumdar-shaw-2413553
Iwo Jima photo
et al

Real ones:
Napalm girl Nam

Fact checking
Think Tanks

USA watch turbn cave while sino pass out. >st econ rise hist. When econ >st war >st hist always. Switch power within anglosphere ww2

1up
coniuratio
ne ev1 as trustng as y

C19 pueri bubble ev1 bbl

Routine huggers
===========================================================================
https://www.howtogeek.com/123268/windows-hard-drive-wrong-capacity/
To a hard disk manufacturer, one KB is 1000 bytes, one MB is 1000 KB, and one GB is 1000 MB. Essentially, if a hard disk is advertised as 500GB, it contains 500 * 1000 * 1000 * 1000 = 500,000,000,000 bytes of space. The hard disk manufacturer thus advertises the disk as a 500 GB hard disk.

However, manufacturers of RAM don’t sell it in even groups of 1000 – they use groups of 1024. When you’re buying memory, a KB is 1024 bytes, a MB is 1024 KB, and a GB is 1024 MB. To work back from the 500,000,000,000 bytes above:

500,000,000,000 / (1024*1024*1024) = 465.66 GB

Keep in mind that the hard drive manufacturers are using the accurate description of the terms–the prefix giga, for instance, means a power of 1000, whereas the correct term for powers of 1024 is gibibyte, though it isn’t often used. Unfortunately, Windows has always calculated hard drives as powers of 1024 while hard drive manufacturers use powers of 1000.
===========================================================================

Contractors cheaper cos ne overheads

clarion call

To resonate is to vibrate with

Telling the truth can be mininformation?
	disinfo?

1up: SC try fool y bliev sth bs like mr matthews his teacher. Study Psych 2 ctr.
	ctr the arrogance
	Scuse me. walk away. Back. Where were we. Ah... Tries go back. No we weren't. Did it sound in any way shape form like me allow/permit that?
shouldne need stare NLP sapce 4 that



Skills-based hiring focuses primarily on reducing pedigree bias — the common tendency to prefer candidates who have a four-year degree or B.A. equivalent even when one is not necessary to be successful in the job.
JN: degree shows stick at it iveness. Sly or chem in medicine

insidious

system prefetch files

Libertine
Licentious?]

Rogued
Rouged

Dugong
Sea cow
Manitee
Dodo
Gret Awk
Puffin

forfeiture

C-Suite execs
Board of directors rule the owners (Shareholders)
Hostile takeover

hussy
hussite
hessian

demarcation

broached

ICBM
nascent

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Savana_violenta
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Investigative_journalism
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mondo_film#The_Savage_Trilogy
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mondo_Cane
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Africa_Addio
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Goodbye_Uncle_Tom


https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tabletop_role-playing_game
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Improvisation
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Applied_improvisation
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Characterization
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Play-by-mail_game#Computer_versus_human_moderated

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Embargo
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Obsolescence
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Jury_rig
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Duct_tape
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Apollo_13

Joe the plumber

n3crophagia

the public record

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Papa_Doc_Duvalier
Idi Amin
Mugabe

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Extra_(acting)

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Black_Power_Movement
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Eldridge_Cleaver
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/LeRoi_Jones
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Stokely_Carmichael
"venge" achvdude?
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/William_Styron
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Confessions_of_Nat_Turner
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Exploitation_of_labour
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Category:Films_about_race_and_ethnicity
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Category:Films_about_American_slavery
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Category:Mondo_films
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Confessions_of_Nat_Turner
unctuous
smarmy
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ralph_Ellison
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/James_Baldwin_(writer)
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Little_Richard
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Stereotype
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Racism
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lynching
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Kristallnacht
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Strategic_bombing_during_World_War_II
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gestapo
the great escape stalag 19? Chchill angry shot after recaptured me laws war?
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/2016_Turkish_coup_d%27%C3%A9tat_attempt
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Civil_disorder
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mob_justice
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Looting
	legal shoot looters?
loiter
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Jungle_justice
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Necklacing
juridical
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Caste-related_violence_in_India
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lynching_in_the_United_States

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Extrajudicial_punishment
judge jeffries
Civil Rights Movement
enfranchised
what year eng full suffrage all men?
	en?
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Provisional_IRA
liverpool kiss
	slash

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Congo_Crisis
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/South_Asians
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mau_Mau_Uprising
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Roger_Ebert

Leonard Maltin?]

Casey Casem?
wolfman

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Exploitation_film

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Travel_documentary
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Western_world
Vignettes
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Rudolph_Valentino

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Polyandry
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Trobriand_Islands
Torres Strait Islands

rough wooing

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Breastfeeding
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cannibalism
flay alive
bury alive

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Foie_gras
caviar general sturgeon
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wagyu

debilitating

garner
maverick

burlesque

juggernauts

douchebag

aplomb

prudish

Leonard Bernstein
Irving Berlin
Porgy Bess

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hermann_G%C3%B6rner
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dmitry_Klokov
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Armand_Tanny
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Vic_Tanny

vivacious

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Confessions_of_Nat_Turner

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Nat_Turner%27s_slave_rebellion#Nat_Turner
Haiti rebellion
et al serv revolts
haiti dominican raid
Amistad?

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_incidents_of_civil_unrest_in_the_United_States
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Harriet_Tubman
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/John_Brown_(abolitionist)
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_slaves
	cervantes?
	Valletta?]
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Abraham_Lincoln
	good?
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cherry_Turner
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/History_of_slavery_in_the_United_States
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Birth_of_a_Nation_(2016_film)
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Denmark_Vesey
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pearl_incident
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Indigo
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lottery
	hist
	green card
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Slave_rebellions#North_America
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Haitian_Revolution

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Galley

tenuous

epub
	sans culottes
	marat
	robespierre
	dead in bath?
	jacobins

poniard
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bayonet

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Christian_missionaries
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Death_by_boiling
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Human_cannibalism
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Torture
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Attainder
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Benefit_of_clergy
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cauldron
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pulley
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tallow
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tar
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Counterfeiter
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Forger
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Swindler
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bhai_Dayala

quell

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Category:Shibboleths
Rwandan genocide

White helmets

cultural marxism

sicilian vespers

Inure

micturation?
nictating etymol

pissoir

Buggerisation factor

Ossian

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hungama
	Hungama TV, an Indian children's television channel
	Hungama Digital Media Entertainment, Bollywood media company

Bengal

electric car me energy source dirty n battery disposal

phrase
genie back in bottle
pandora box
toothpaste back in tube
turd butt

Playing The Sims
Musk declared in 2016, during the annual Code Conference, his belief that humanity is actually living in a simulation. The Tesla founder’s argument is based on the idea that, as realistic video games become more complex, it’s logical to think that they might become indistinguishable from reality.
The Matrix?
This doesn’t explain how we can tell we are living in a simulation. The same conclusion can be reached about how we aren’t living in the real world, though. It’s probably better not to think about it too hard.
One step closer to singularity
Neuralink is one of Elon Musk’s passion projects, according to Fortune. The South African billionaire assures that it's working on a memory chip that will grant users the ability to save memories like pictures on a computer, have human-to-human telepathy and help paraplegics to walk again.
The impossible dream
Nonetheless, several scientific publications such as The Massachusetts Institute of Technology’s Technology Review have debunked these claims saying that they are unlikely without more data to essentially impossible.
Space, the final frontier...
It’s no secret that the South African billionaire is interested in space travel. One of his most notable companies is SpaceX, which is focused on airspace. “My goal is not to send myself up. My goal is to open up space to humanity… and become a multiplanet species,” Musk declared in 2021 during the Code Conference.
Life on Mars
A National Geographic interview from 2016 reveals that Musk estimates that by the 2060s, there could be a million humans living on the surface of the red planet. Only time will tell if this and other predictions will become true.

Doge venice
Built swamp escape barbars

Baibars
Maimonides

https://www.msn.com/en-nz/news/national/kiwis-banks-big-profits-could-be-sign-they-re-not-taking-enough-risks-expert/ar-AA11uuHx?ocid=entnewsntp&cvid=64bb8fc63fa548cca112320c224c21d5
"One of the real issues here is, are banks actually taking enough risk or are they these really conservative organisations that are charging us a pretty good margin and actually not taking a sufficient risk, pushing capital out into the general economy," he said. 
...
	"There's a whole lot of things that we need to look at starting at the risk weights. The Reserve Bank sets these risk weights where the banks basically need to hold less capital against a housing loan versus a business loan," he said. 
	"So banks are economically incentivised to write a lot more housing loans because they get what's called capital relief. If you look at what's happened over the past ten odd years, the banks have taken out an awful lot of staff …. That's a fundamental problem when you look at what the basic role of the financial system or the banks are in regard to channelling money into the general economy and the pricing of risk." 

drawing a round of condescending applause

nefarious

breakfast is the most important meal of the day,
	cereal co resch?

Bhopal union carbide

some people also ate a third meal at night called reresoper

Israel $ kept alive by USA

extradite
Interpol
matt damon fbi movie

delineations

Eponymous
Demonym

insolence

insolvent

This course introduces the Dynamic Distributed Dimensional Data Model (D4M), a breakthrough in computer programming that combines graph theory, linear algebra, and databases to address problems associated with Big Data. Search, social media, ad placement, mapping, tracking, spam filtering, fraud detection, wireless communication, drug discovery, and bioinformatics all attempt to find items of interest in vast quantities of data. This course teaches a signal processing approach to these problems by combining linear algebraic graph algorithms, group theory, and database design. This approach has been implemented in software. The class will begin with a number of practical problems, introduce the appropriate theory, and then apply the theory to these problems. Students will apply these ideas in the final project of their choosing. The course will contain a number of smaller assignments which will prepare the students with appropriate software infrastructure for completing their final projects.

assuaged

clandestine

petty (petit?) bourgeoisie

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bank_vault
	strongroom

spindle
etymol bluebeard mn tag

Sleeping Beauty: Charles Perrault’s ‘Mother Goose Tales’ inspired Disney, but it was Italian author Giambattista Basile's 1634 story 'Sun, Moon, and Talia' that inspired Perrault in the first place.

taciturn
lacinic
tacit
explicit
normative
mores
meantime

spurned

soporific

antidotal
comatose

Siemens
Maersk

Poem bigs bite em ad infinitem
equine quadruped

colloquium

Coup vs
Putsch vs
Junta vs
Insurrection vs
Rebellion vs
Revolution vs
Sedition vs 
Treason vs
Regime change

fraught

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Brin
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bryn
##### https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Block_Range_Index
https://themeaningofthename.com/brin/

reciprocate

Impetus

SR:
	SS install
		data on sep folder to prog files
	ne need temp db on sep drive cos solid state
solid state drive vs flash storage
RAID
SAN

furore

CB radio mn tags 10-4

military operation mn tags op barbarossa et al

etymol:
bemuse
bespoke

misconstrued

besmirched

ethnophaulism

wily

appraise

idiosyncrasies
idiom

fasting: new wine old skin

nobel dylan ev1 needs get

patois

##### Sardonic

despoil

putative

platonic relationship

feral
vestigial
spandrel

Schlock

Accolades

requisitioned

summarily executed

consummated

Picket fences
twin peaks

bungalow
derelict

gonzo

swoon-bait

actor out on loan

5 blonde types
	pl;atinum
	strawberry
	...

us screen stereotype-trope
	brunette girl next door
	femme fatale black hair
	? blonde?

gamelan

Hollywood studio vanities?
	Leo MGM
	Fox searchlights
et al?

Oldest movie studio
	distillerty
bollinger F1 official oh?

all gussied up

Barbican
Old Bailey

Barbiturates

Mennonite
Hussite

Concorde
Lexington

Concord 1st n last flights

iatrophobia (fear of doctors)

cottage industry

foreclosure

paparazzi

perforce
abjure
juridical

mn tag
	blue white collar
	red bull
	bluebird chips/cafe
	blue blood
	royal purple
	green day
	yellow submarine
	pinko
	maroon island queensland jamaican rebel
	blackadder tv canterbury rugby
	cloth field of gold
	goldman sachs
	barry goldwater
	silverback gorilla
	browneye
	greenfields
	anne green gables
	The Green Man
	bluebottle
	blues guitar
	yellow belly
	white feather
	orange lodge (Mason?)
	blackguard
	lampblack
	whitechapel murders
	indigo indies
	violet Elizabeth
	trurquoise turk

	lavender
	cerise
	mauve

castle catholic
west brit

etymol punk

melodrama

unrequited 

Unperturbed

Formosa

Cornwallis

nervous breakdowns

etymol dude

tragicomic

https://www.merriam-webster.com/dictionary/trenchant
KEEN, SHARP
vigorously effective and articulate
sharply perceptive : PENETRATING
CLEAR-CUT, DISTINCT
Did you know?
The word trenchant comes from the Anglo-French verb trencher, meaning "to cut," and may ultimately derive from the Vulgar Latin trinicare, meaning "to cut in three." Hence, a trenchant sword is one with a keen edge; a trenchant remark is one that cuts deep; and a trenchant observation is one that cuts to the heart of the matter. Relatives of trenchant in English include the noun trench ("a long ditch cut into the ground") and the verb retrench ("to cut down or pare away" or "to cut down expenses").

IKEA

Repairables

Sunset Strip
Champs Elysees
et al

svelte
damsel
buxom

damask
damascene

damascus steel
spanish steel
et al?

CIA LSD expts

exa conspir theory true: Snowden 2013

Contraindications

Anorectic
Narcoleptic

psychotropic

proliferation

truant
hookey
roofie
mickey finn

nostalgia

pout

silent majority
reagan air traffic controllers

opined that

somehow manages to thread the extraordinary needle of being wrong on every single point he makes

vax vs innoculate

Narcolepsy

epub
	heidi
	black beauty
	national velvet
	little women
	anne green gables

unshriven

spendthrift

parsimony
simony
alimony
palimony

Entropy
	etymol
	laws thermodyn
		sci laws
Bernouilli eqn

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Seven_deadly_sins#Historical_sins
Vainglory (Latin, vanagloria) is unjustified boasting. Pope Gregory viewed it as a form of pride, so he folded vainglory into pride for his listing of sins.[14] According to Aquinas, it is the progenitor of envy.[37]
The Latin term gloria roughly means boasting, although its English cognate glory has come to have an exclusively positive meaning. Historically, the term vain roughly meant futile (a meaning retained in the modern expression "in vain"), but had come to have the strong narcissistic undertones by the fourteenth century which it still retains today.[57] As a result of these semantic changes, vainglory has become a rarely used word in itself and is now commonly interpreted as referring to vanity (in its modern narcissistic sense).[citation needed]

lapse
sundry
spandrel

Lance Longinus
Simon Magus
Wandering Jew

misconstrue

Marx alienation

etymol absurd

Lavish

The scene that took steve harvey off the family feud show

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Nina_Simone
Chardine Taylor-Stone has noted that, beyond the politics of beauty, the song also describes the stereotypical roles that many black women have historically been restricted to: the mammy, the tragic mulatto, the sex worker and the angry black woman.

three-part counterpoint

hectoring

if have clinical depressn ne kno it

systemic

gawked

gobbledegook

structural racism and unconscious bias

Etymol Pacific Coronado? peaceful?

Lewis & clark

Korean war 49th parallel?
Mason dixon line
Louisianna purchase
Alaskan purchase
Yukon
Klondike
Yukutan

implicit bias

KDallow cop offer lower sentence admit all burglaries (night crime)

quagmire

scuttle
scuttlebutt

Justice of the Peace

surveillance

Racial profiling

an underlying factor

anecdotal evidence

the Levant

black bronze
ancient batteries
lacquer

pristine 

BC/BCE

aftermath
polymath

Corvus punic wars

Bks from WCL y loved when pueri n SFX lib

mattock

matlock
rumpole bailey
perry mason
Columbo
Murder she wrote

milton friedman
max friedman

schist
scoria

hypocaust

pedigree
thoroughbred
peerage

Royal societies

satiate

consternation

sternum

Tenderloins
Withers
Loam
Tack

Overturned saints ferd isabella?

wan

Nape

ABS brakes


etymol insurrection

despoiled
expunge
expound

wake
mrg banns
keener

Dreaded Lurgie goon show
monty python
Spike Milligan

Mn: toupe 19

feigning modesty

-esque
esquire

maudlin
troubadour
jongleur

David Tennant

Red Shoe Diaries

chinwagged
Leigh Hart
haphazard

deadpan

trademark

brace fo
brace self for
appropriation
mayday
ranch slider
made on the smell of an oily rag
Mixtape
unassuming
silo
silage
compost
hypocaust
atrium

garnered
facet
	hist of faceted gems
etymol troy wt

cowbell
earnest
forays

wizened (pron)

vixen

brogues

arbitrate
arbitrage

ecumenism etymol

adage

ravine
escarpement

harried

use case

camber

champ at the bit

propensity

Carbolic acid

emeritus
tenure
associate

cliffhanger

wont to do

Hasidic

wend

craven

status quo

enui
angst

Hue

didactic

Beta testing

stint
stent

a clutch performer

Argmt sc >st econ usa entertain

black market
EEC
Shadow economy
virtual economy (financial engineering>real)
medieval econ growth tied to popn growth?

GDP vs GNP

S Fry QI D style bs

portfolio
dossier
brief
debrief

revanche?

evanescent

df: impeach
primary source vs secondary
	us cinstitution vs bks about it by legal scholars
scholia
ray bradbury s story alien archieologists?
persians sack mecca year?

epub vs sci reductionism

poppet

foundling
starling
hurling
curling
	irons
	sport

etymol moot

lilac
mauve
lavender

exorbitant

palatinate

thuringia

etymol > Q= see both POV

POVRAY

Chanson de geste

Rhetorical Q

Cumquat
Carbuoy
Hogshead

Mockingjay
Abelard
we have to [abide by the] same laws as
Sic.
Sic dog on so
etymol Mutt
etymol Mongrel

reiterated

oblast

camouflage fatigues

bellweather

maidan

hahaganda?

livid

Seachange: War armenia? tanks taken by drones

condoned

Is Ukraine the Serbia (1914) of 21C
	Assassn Putn ww3

lambast

The Daily Beast
Bookended

included on Russia's 60 Minutes

bludgeon

20K ppl killed in Donbass bu Ukrn

railed against

excoriated 

misappropriation

buttresses

purports to

cameo

Do sui in Gehenna/Sheol alofa relves?

bitumen

winner usually has >st difficult path 2 final
	arg pro - tuffens
	arg 2 - wears out
role of confidence in sport

escalate

ne je dbl std - cuckood kings lost respect got deposed, killed (or maimed in culture where king can't have deformity)

etymol defibrillator
	transponder



reverie
revenant

reify

ideation

tryst

acrimony

Hype cycle

the good ppl who vie in terr ira>@xtn than mal do cos resent idea save sinners

allegedly

Idempotent

Gamification

solenoid
spheroid
cuboid
androiud
meteoroid
etymol plagiarism

motorcade
cavalcade

volley
fusillade
bombardment
cannonade

Jury-rigging
jerry can

kismet

brinksmanship
jk drinksmanship

Terraform
	Bicep/ARM

embark
disembark

Given no single empirical study can adequately address this question, the best way to understand it is to conduct a meta-analysis.

albeit
statistically significant

OECD
OPEC
ASEAN

click ops

elephant in the room
a lemon
pink elephant DT's
white elephant

NDA
Non Disclosure Agreement

Coven
Conenant
Covenanters
Antidisestablishmentarians
Nonconformists

QE2 death flushing out the wokeists/wokelings

jump thru hoops

swings roundabouts

Geff (wwk) like ycht
	ask q bout how tack into wind/sail faster than wind
		y ne aroha ycht. Y je cos we ne like. Pass aggro

strands

strand (street)

wherewithall

shebang

etymol bespoke
besmirch

damsel
buxom
svelte
sleek
	can be fat?

Dude
greenhorn
meantime
high noon

Exfiltration

arg
	1 hand serv greater good. other poison ty tamariki
	n got a name to throw at those who disagree or even q it
		str cog bias incentive 2 go w official line

cog dissonance

wikip rule of thumb

jeered

jape
jest
jongleur
troubadour

adjourn
Maori king

indemnity

etymol broker
jean luc goddard
luc besson

belated

chelated
nictating

deleterious

avatar

Gallup polls

to husband the authority

squander
quandary

disruptive tech/industry

the Gaza Strip

helicopter parents
tiger mum
soccer mum
mum or mom?

ephemera

daresay

incongruous

Winslow homer
whistler
wyeth

fools rush in
angels head pin

heinous

doe
faun

primavera

bismark
clasuowitz
mommsen

microdosing

envision

jk crash test dummy vs guinea pig

Spokane
Chattanooga
Tallahassee

caboose (that got loose kid's book)
calaboose

MN TAG:
The Fourteen Holy Helpers, also known as the "Auxiliary Saints," are a group of saints venerated by the Catholic Church. They used to be celebrated and worshiped as a group, as well as individually, even though some of these saints may have never existed.

Mau Mau
fixture
reparations

pipette
bunsen

wax lyrical

probative 

Argmt: RC Death Penalty

repudiate
malleable

travesty
predicament

sKnight predicated on
	playgroubd ploy: pretend ne bliev evth y say
		ctr: ruthless sneer demand eg what's syllogism. ne reasonable tone (uses this)

duty of care
due diligence

tour of duty

payload

QBR quarterly business review

brain fart
implosion

greenspan
turing
bollard
	alan

aberration

cruelled

scolding
scald
skald

The onus is now on
intrepid
gauntlet

resting face

click ops

indifferent

Cerulean

demeanour

demesne

reaming

abject
adjacent
juxtapose
adipose
lipid

snide

whitewash

putsch
coup
junta

tour de force

Argmt: prob w ticking bomb scenario
	can't break x me can get break by trt sui kid

corporatisation & professionalisatn of evth
	eg m smith red X caritas
	need quals 4 chainsaw

maul
caul

stock-in-trade

personable

geek vs nerd

aisle
liase

swami
guru
mahatma

hagia cath?
	peccat 4 some me ne alia

pavilion

snide

disparaging

pundit
pukka?]

foment
angular momentum

Double-Blind Clinical Study

Sources

PhytoMedicine (February 2003) [Link]
Dr Oz [Link]
Mayo Clinic [Link]

Brian Jones: The Making of the Rolling Stones and Sympathy for the Devil: The Birth of the Rolling Stones by Paul Trynka – and the Death of Brian Jones by Paul Trynka

inaugural
augery

sheridan le fanu

attrition

NCOs, warrant officers, field officers

perplexed

1up
smile
why so serious
cos ive got serious things to deal with
wrong time 4 flippancy

irreparable
snub
condolence
persevere
	poem kenny

faux pas
droll

allege

etymol collegial
college
colleague
collage
montage


Liz Truss
a truss
corset

toupe/

Obamacare

dismantling

demarcation

caucus

mantra
chakra
mandala

chancellor

Linting: checking code formated properly

fiasco

attire

insinuations

mn tag fortune 500
G7
G8
# in UN security council
	OECD
	OPEC
	UN
	League of nations
	Commonwealth
	Arab (df) League
	
Summit meeting

freud on hx
emerson freud achv jung

mien

rift
riftwars

digital twins

bs etymol
	tom crapper
	vienna croissant
captain gotcha MoH


tarmac

perforate
perforce

ineffable

it's only aspergers if y treat ev1 bad

managed identities ne have pwds
svp pples do
vice cersa?

azure connect dbricks to az sql

use appid and secret to get token
trust a friend in science

staunch

stanchion
escutcheon
epaulette
air force plane markings
corsage
puttee
bamdolier
tabard
baldrick
cummerbund
sash synonyms

jk full stack dev/full stackexchange dev

countenance

pernicious

etymol libido

piquant
mellifluous
lugubrious
embellishments

deportment
scruple

venous

venal
venial

voluptuous
sedentary
tendentious

argmt sc > irsh
	rem x, y, z, born there etc
sly rem leg from chair still chair...
at a certain pt the chair falls
	y too stupid to kno this or try baras me
sly race ne exist
	straw man
		albino dub
		19c race theory denf ne real
		so no defn of race is real
		99% same dna chimp person
		the 1% matter
whatev y say. whatev i say is in this case true.

meeting sardonic
pass aggro sly this inaprop nt it?

not in this universe lockie

sku
azure sku?

click ops

kellogg briand

rampant
balfour decln

K-12 school

per se
sui generis

aftermath

Strunk and White – The Elements of Style, the American-English writing style guide that sold about two million copies in 1959

adamant, emphatic
superfluous
superficial

man plain-speaking

mansplain
manspreading

hom whine hurt
me ne go doc

st vitus dance

quote twain? lies damn lies stats

furore

books like ‘Twas the Night Before Christmas

Today’s image of Santa Claus differs from the ethnic origins of St. Nicholas, the patron saint of children, who was said to have been born and buried in Myra, in present-day Turkey, according to Britannica.

American Dirt, written by Jeanine Cummins

independence & freedom movement & evil
	tom dixon
	jn brown
	fred douglass

Slalom

toboggan
sled
sleigh?]

grandstanding
chuckle
chortle
guffaw

Epsom salts
bath salts

deadpan
hilarity
jape
jocularity

brazen

The Commonwealth's a jigsaw puzzle of nations that's changed considerably since its inception in 1931. Currently, of the 56 members, 15 still share the monarch as Head of State - including us, Australia, Canada, and, of course, the UK - while 36 are republics and the rest have their own monarchy. 

I We you thee thou he she they one

speak self 3rd person
mcenroe visn

flagrant
flagrante delicto

memefication
euphoria

waif

bkni atoll. Year invent. By who. Who 1st wear
10 famous places mn lat long. Wellington. Antipodes

web scraping

purloin
tenderloin

the withers

shank

squalid

reimburse
bursar
bursary
purse?

rescidivist

replete
complete
deplete
explete

not excusable but explicable

systematic
systemic

law looks at result of infraction
meted out
prognosticate
cognoscenti

is wont to

wanton

22/9/2022
Putin orders partial mobilization as Russia moves to hold annexation referendum
In an address to the nation on Wednesday, Russian President Vladimir Putin announced a partial mobilization has been decreed, making Russian citizens currently in reserve subject to conscription. The announcement comes after the self-declared Donetsk (DPR) and Luhansk People’s Republics (LPR), and eastern Ukrainian regions of Kherson and Zaporizhzhia announced plans to hold votes on joining Russia. NATO Secretary General Jens Stoltenberg called the referendum an "escalation in Putin's war." Keep it here for the latest on-the-ground updates.

Blonde, the 2000 novel of the same name by Joyce Carol Oates.

impute
dispute
repute
deputy
compute

nuance

euphoria
disphoria

elegy

rewrt sino hist - mauvewashing - cos venetian explorer Yuan Dynasty 1254 – 8 January 1324
	Book of the Marvels of the World and Il Milione, c. 1300)

mercantile trade


Turmeric
CBD
Ginko Bilboa

Double blind clinical trial

Angela Levin's biography of Queen Consort Camilla

argmt fin servus in occidens correlate wi xtn era

finicky

repudiate

sycophantic

Drachma

oxymoron

The Great Wall of Qi, with a total length of 641 km, was built during the Spring and Autumn Period (770 B.C.-476 B.C.) and the Warring States Period (475 B.C.-221 B.C.).

The Great Wall is a UNESCO World Heritage Site, consisting of many interconnected walls.

pleasantries

Royal Commission
thumbing its nose

unconscionable

McAfee

jk
	smile why ne
	funny 1st 500 times
	2 wks past its used by date
	inappropriate
	i thot divers of demeanour good thing
		inclus
	i thot important 2 create envmt inclusive of the full diversity of demeaonours

sleep apnea

Tom Jones. His voice developed not from the dust of the coal mines that surrounded him, and where his father and brother worked, but from the several years of exercises he had to go through his two year early teen recouperation from Tuberculosis. 

loess

epub
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Danielle_Darrieux
Dorothy Dandridge

put paid to
philander

tryst

evil vs wicked

EPUB LOU REED
velvet underground
rh chilli peppers
pogues
snoop dog
eminem

phoneme

should be a given

dandy
fop
greenhorn
libertine

risible

junction
juncture
juxtapose
adjunct
adjutant
adjective

aspect-oriented programming

coalesce

idempotent

bad faith attacks 

javadoc

let's ravel that
let's unravel that

lesson: kayaker oz to nz panic video

fraught
caveat

under over et al whelm

south east asia

WW2 grm outnum 10-1 (?) n useless? me last 6 yr
Shickelgruber ne fix grm econ?
	the nth good to say argmt

ww1 1st tank run over wounded?

warranted an apology

legalese
purple prose

harrods

prepend

Jk
Age b4 beauty. aged beef > beaut. Ne knew
Scot sot

coerce

pending
depend
append?]
prepend
expend
	expound
	compound

Portfolio
Dossier
Amortization
Depreciation
Deprecation
Arbitrage
Scofflaw
Bull/bear market
Debenture
Hedge Fund
Futures
Bonds
real estate
estates general

Synonym
Homonym
antonym
et al

phoneme

wds wo synonym/antonyms

=======================
Synonyms for depreciation

belittlement, denigration, deprecation, derogation, detraction, diminishment, disparagement, put-down
Words Related to depreciation

aspersion, backbiting, calumny, defamation, libel, slander, vilification
derision, mockery, ridicule
abuse, invective, vituperation
censure, condemnation, criticism, denouncement, denunciation
de-emphasis, minimization, soft-pedaling
Near Antonyms for depreciation

acclaim, praise
approbation, approval, blessing, commendation
hype, puffery
Antonyms for depreciation

aggrandizement, ennoblement, exaltation, glorification, magnification
=======================

Opex/Capex et al

fiscal
financial
monetary
mercantilism
tariff
excise

Contranyms, or Janus words, are words with two opposite meanings, depending on the context in which they're used. Also known as antagonyms or auto-antonyms, these interesting words, of which there are at least more than a hundred, are nicknamed "Janus words" after the two-faced Roman god Janus, who was, among other things, the patron deity of transition and duality. Just like Janus, these words represent the beautiful duality and fluidity of language, where simple words can be used to express such a variety of ideas depending on their usage.

compositing
matte
antialiasing
gamma
VGA
HDMI

salvo
volley
bombardment
fusillade

in defile

dwindle

patter
	I'm actually caught off guard here

Smile why ne y
	cos I have gorm
	not ev1 blessed w y magnificent jowls

gorm·less
	lacking sense or initiative; foolish:
mid 18th century (originally as gaumless): from dialect gaum ‘understanding’ (from Old Norse gaumr ‘care, heed’) + -less.

1up: hierarchy enforcer vs truth trader
Toxic masc, fem, competitiveness (synonyms)

apropos

demean
demeanor

1up
bladder control muscle
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/books/NBK482181/
The walls of the bladder are mainly formed by detrusor muscle, which allows the bladder to contract to excrete urine or relax to hold urine. At the inferior end of the bladder, the detrusor muscle is continuous with the internal urethral sphincter. The combination of detrusor contraction and urethral sphincter relaxation leads to urination.

df pathology
pathos
psychopath
pathogen
empath

broach the subject

junction
juncture

umbrage

forfeiture
restitution
limelight

anomaly

synonym
antonym
homonym

plummet
plumage

dead ringer
staying mum

endemic

WKerr
either ne knows or is his MO
If face to face 1 on 1 non threatening talk
	ne if online
Go thru y PM to his PM
if go thru pm n fails
	leave proj 4 success of team
if success
	ne jkes at meetings (cos complainedat his jks)


reprieve

define:confront
meet (someone) face to face with hostile or argumentative intent

Elgin marbles
Sphinx nose

Stickler

1up
	risus
		y want me risus. Right now or thruout the meeting. Request or order

reserve bank
	interest rates
federal reserve
fort knox	K
	Kentucky	K
		Cnl?] Sanders
			SECRET recipe

On Tuesday (local time), Musk tweeted: "Ukraine-Russia Peace: Redo elections of annexed regions under UN supervision. Russia leaves if that is will of the people. Crimea formally part of Russia, as it has been since 1783 (until Khrushchev's mistake).

Правильно ли ненавидеть демонов?

1up je cos acceptble in soc pugnare cos opine ne means OK

slobber

nasty sledging when already won is to prep opn Q= 4 next encounter

etymol synapse

Stadium Gk Stade unit meas.

Congress Vienna.

pertain
detain

qualm

Salacious

lambasted

bombast

mealy-mouthed

Bolster

opulence

solve crime legalise evth

decrim vs legalise
legalese
purple prose

snow angel

R Turks n albanians alb?

Race ne exist strawman argmt

SC redefine common sense wd 2 win argmt

Cog bias

opencog
	prob: at base of all human reasoning is motive: curiosity, survival...
List base emtns
color wheel
chromatic scale
diatonic

forfeit
surfeit
surcharge

surcoat
baldrick
tabard
livery

licentious

when spelling n punctiuation rules made. When USA split f eng

===================================================================
https://www.msn.com/en-nz/news/national/pay-gap-report-reveals-gender-ethnic-disparties/ar-AA12DT3y?ocid=entnewsntp&cvid=48949d8e57f34eecb90e80ac13ee753a
Pay gap: report reveals gender, ethnic disparties
1h ago
2 Comments
|

1




Alabour market report indicates men of European descent are paid more than everyone else on average, suggesting big organisations could do more to address the disparity.

Strategic Pay and MindTheGap's third annual report on gender pay has found significant gaps which could be reduced with mandatory reporting of pay rates.

Are you the next Winner? Available in Wellington!
Ad
Ninja Ofer
Are you the next Winner? Available in Wellington!
Compared to the average hourly pay rate of European men:

Pasifika men earn 22.9 percent less
Māori men 16.7 percent less
Asian men 10.8 percent less
European women 11.9 percent less
Wahine Māori 23.0 percent less
Pasifika women 24.0 percent less
Asian women 17.4 percent less
Middle Eastern, Latin American and African 19.0 percent less
Women in the 'other ethnicity' group 22.0 percent less
The report estimates it would cost an additional $17.6 billion a year in wages and salaries to raise average ethnic and gender pay to match that of Pākehā men - about 11 percent of total wages and salaries.

While the analysis found the overall gender pay gap had slightly improved over the past year, narrowing to 16.7 percent from 18.5 percent, more work was required.
JN:PI cultural. Koha et al
===================================================================

JSON
serialise deserialise

df politics
df professional

Met Gala

net
gross
tare

etymol plagiarize

feisty
payola
debunk
unfazed

awash

pugwash


Back in 1849, French author Jean-Baptiste Alphonse Karr memorably wrote  in his journal Les Guêpes, “Plus ça change, plus c’est la même chose”. The phrase translates as, ‘The more things change, the more they stay the same’.

fanfare

given a chance to show his wares
maryln?] waring

“I loved his subtle angles, running at the man and then hitting his inside shoulder. Those tough lines are not easy to run to get over the advantage line. He got [the All Blacks] going forward and [that] made a big difference to our attack.”

chafing at the bit

debacle

the three wise men

bulwark

ran riot

citadel

subsidiary
subsidy

kowtow
curtsey
bow
salaam

showcase
show pony

barometer

nascar
indy car
indianapolis 500
	mn tag

quiz f1 bollinger

chequered flag
yellow jersey cycling
golf green jacket
peleton
mn tag golf birdie bogie

quash
squash

Fortuitous

Rucksack
knapsack

scragg
dag
conkers
scrimmage

tokenism

superlatives

devops
dataops
mlops
aiops?
CI/CD

stiple
stepe
spire
stucco
stipulate

Mediev cathedral etymol
	designed 2 up to God
modernist chch lower eyes to world

russ invent helicopter?

Lead petrol invent by guy who friend killed by hand crank car?

potsherd
midden

tare

Jk: it's a wk in progress

self
ev1 does it
->well don't

mentor/mentee

it's a wrap

Sapodilla tree chewing gum?
hist of contracep

Inca cotton farmers

Edwin L. Drake being credited with discovering oil in the US in 1859

Though the earliest version of democracy is credited to the ancient Greeks, in the 1700s the Iroquois developed another version which is said to have directly influenced the founding fathers of the United States.

The native populations of Australia had maintained fields for centuries through a form of controlled burning called "firestick farming," in which they would expertly aim the fires to clear tracks or create fields of open grass ideal for farming.

jk 1st chick or egg. Rooster

kudos

nonchalant
exalted  from Latin exaltare, from ex- ‘out, upward’ + altus ‘high’
	olympic motto
		Citius, Altius, Fortius


devotion
unicorn in bible

elevate

Brilliantine
Whitewash

ikea
hugge

mentor/mentee

synopsis
synoptic

etymol chiropractor

wn solds n pirates

Argmt drudge factr
	5000 hrs/Comedy kata dojos
	I was born boring. No sense humr. No personality.
		But put in the yards, and by sheer grit
	Sports claim all is grit
	Academics/Artists all follow Mozart myth

Drudge rpt

Shksp had collabs 4 some plays?
	prob inclad libs from actors that were good

Etymol true grá/destines soulmate

triage

Deep fake
realme
last matrix movie used on keanu 4 younger version
Bruce willis sold rights to image

jk puts fundament in fundamental

ford maddox ford

Etymol Catechism?]

Buffet
Smorgasbord

sitn can be ironic me ne sarcastic
	sardonic vs sarcastic
		etymol
Hypocrite etymol
	if none soc is in bad shape cos not even trying to keep up appearances/fake it
Legend in own lunchtime, ne myth
	etymol
etymol etymol

deleterious?]

invigilate
diligence

Praxis

Nexus

list of diminutives
	opposite of diminutive?

Segue

shimmy

grand larceny

spattering

measly

inebriated

perennial

slag
sludge

sled vs toboggan
slalom

showcase
Show ony

pedigree
burkes peerage
Christies
Sotheby's

amalgam
anneal
vulcanise
galvanise
catalyst
osmosis

list of fatherland countries vs motherland
father tiber
volkssturm?]

liebensraum etymol
wandervogels

pueri q why northpole 24 h day night etc
	why seasons
	why 2 seasons tropics 23 degree)
		subtropics
			df?

ha gotcha

World Heritage Sites
UNESCO
CARITAS

Hist of Red Cross

df city town village mountain hill river stream sea ocean continent (etymol)

shoe sizes UK NZ USA

Most % rural to most % urban countries on earth

Wheedle
Dicker

bury hatchet
olive branch
shalom
warpath

Authoritarian-Libertarian & Left-Right axes?
	df terms

speak to
speakeasy
honkytonk
truth to power
will to power

reprimand
oil shocks 70's

Suez crisis
Profumo affair

TV: Money Heist
	Dahmer

The "true crime industrial complex."

USA Debt Amt & $ printing

Name Gk who destroyed wonder of world for fame

Quote bros keeper cain able?]

Buzzfeed

systemic racism

BLM commie

succinctly
etymol paradox
	conundrum
	riddle
	aphorism

pith

salacious
Salubrious

queasy

Forbes

blackface

wn in men cricket UK?

CAR: RPM to gear shift ratio

test cap
df test match

Lord's Players entrance vs gentlemen
	Raffles

indie music labels

Tax evasion vs avoidance

encroach

roach
cockroach

was asked to delimit the border between

etymol creek

Paramount

inculturation

inculcate

Simeon

gantry

Origin of the specious
Dawkins Name of Darwin bk
Dawkins vs Card Pell sth from nth risus

https://www.msn.com/en-nz/news/national/reckless-idiots-national-mp-clashes-with-veteran-activist-after-protest-causes-traffic-chaos-in-capital/ar-AA12Nrv9?ocid=entnewsntp&cvid=af9552e5d0f047feb7638f2944eb1483
Minto said the protests were justified because politicians aren't fixing the issue and keep making empty promises. 
Me @Mandte sly argmt ne

9/11/2022 Ardern fake laugh

etymol proprietary

Sharding vs partitioning

number of nations in the bible
number of animals in the bible
number of plants in the bible
number of Towns, Cities, Villages in the bible
number of Rivers in the bible
number of Mountains in the bible

Ultramontanes

Blood sports
	Hunting
	Baiting
	Dog/cock fighting
	Jousting Tourney
	Roman Gladiators
	Pankreton
	Aztec ball game?
	Et al?

Koi
Axolotyl
Cicadas come out of sleeep ev 17 yrs?

Especially early tournaments were more or less regulated battles involving cavalry and infantry fighting. Judicial combat or fights a outrance often ended in death if the loser did not surrender or the jury stopped the fight.

Public execution
	descriptions of
	ppl taunt?
	Hang-Bners?

Prima noctae

urbane
germane

proles

how many roman censuses
other cultures
	domesday book
how many roman citizens
empire size
df roman citizens
plebians
SPQR

equanimity

Anemone 232

backsliding

patois

recidivism

just saying

ICBM

Haute Couture

embezzle

etymol mandatory

Tribalism is the basic organizing instinct of humans and is driven by our biochemistry. It is normal and irrepressible. Rather than being Abhorrent it needs to be understood and acomodated.

The belief that there is something wrong with people dividing up by race is is not correct. What IS wrong is “Group Identity Politics” which purposely stampedes people into tribes of race and gender then hysterically sensationalizing some sad conflicts between a few individuals of the different tribes and then creating narratives that accuse all members of a race as being similarly hateful.

write a book, like Eugene Sledge did about his time in the WW2 Marines

cogent

parole

incarcerated

jail vs penitentiary vs borstal vs gaol vs prison
poorhouse
debtor's prison
rake's progress

India hx caste

Highveld 

alumnus
alma mater

proliferation
brig
brigantine
bailiff
bailey
bastion
escarpement
ridge

etymol ship's helm

domicile

the Jeff Bezos-backed space tourism company Blue Origin

excerpt
mn tag # apollo missions

Earth
Gaia
	hypothesis
		author

palpable

While looking at a photograph, a man said, “Brothers and sisters have I none, but that man's father is my father's son.” Who was the person in the photograph?

spate

paramore

heyday

stereo etymol

bicameral

binocular predator

picaresque

the mysterious 'Philadelphia Experiment'

reminisced

Liverpudlians
Mancunians
Scouse
Bristol
Brummies

‘let’s just let it petre [sic] out’

Klein?] bottle

Rie vs Rei German pron

nostalgic

candid

“We were immediately nailed to the sofa. And I saw God, this amazing towering thing, and I was humbled,” McCartney recalled of taking Dimethyltryptamine (DMT) with a group of people that included art dealer Robert Fraser.

indelible

beseech

coalesce

Frédéric Chopin

accrue

mystique

shed a little bit of light

pecking order
matriarchical socs
alpha male
	wolves

etymol anticipate

plying their trade

edict

Commie domino effect
laser maser

dissidents

reticence

entice

Mn Tag:
Sir Peter Leitch - affectionately known as the 'Mad Butcher'. Sir Peter has been an avid supporter of the Warriors since their inception in 1995 and has been dubbed as the team's '19th man'.

Indigo
violet

brash

colloquially

Madison Square Garden
The Apollo
Tha Palladium

awash with

etymol parody lampoon
allegory

Luther RC Babylon Captiv exile
resile

Magician
	prestige

resorting

moniker

sabotage
brawl

disparaged

inaugural

The Valentine's Day Massacre
Assume the Position
Ribaldry/blue comedy

upshot

etymol mitigate

residual

"I am not saying it would've been the right decision but I am just saying it's what I would've done."

2022 Brazilian Presidential candidate Jair Bolsonaro.
Bolsonaro is a controversial politician and even had Brazilian federal police call for him to be charged for spreading COVID-19 misinformation.

reiterate

Haiku

ne end up wk 4 geek
	4 gk w business nous. Thew 1% of the 1%
		80 mill
vs nerd

emancipate
manumission

mitigate

allocate
colocation
alimony
	pal

etymol digress

clutter

speaking to it

embattled

transcending

embolden
etymol pilgrim

acid rain bs?
hard rain
heavy water
rachewl carson bs
howard zinn bs

tariq ali
edward said?]

etymol hypothetical

etymol TV

Argmt
	Some but not all
	Correlation causation
	Post hoc ergo propter hoc
	Law inintended consequences

celestine prophecy
artesian
artisan

need to beware of certain tricks in negotiation scenarios where your counterpart can throw out and twist something minor to distract the stakeholders from the main points - yet to learn and find a solution for that to ensure the outcome.

Arrived on time, Start late
Indicate when done.
Clear & precise.
Some pple 4got lessons learned & needed prompt
Finish on time or early.

=============================
https://www.msn.com/en-nz/news/other/surprising-things-forbidden-by-the-bible/ss-AA12UOal?ocid=entnewsntp&cvid=9166aabe16824a17b55065f9f82521d6
"You shall not make any cuttings in your flesh for the dead, nor tattoo any marks upon you," reads Leviticus 19:28.

Leviticus 18:22, which reads: "Thou shalt not lie with mankind, as with womankind: it is abomination."

Leviticus 20:13 also mentions it: “If a man also lie with mankind, as he lieth with a woman, both of them have committed an abomination: they shall surely be put to death; their blood shall be upon them."

propriety

“Do not join those who drink too much wine or gorge themselves on meat, for drunkards and gluttons become poor, and drowsiness clothes them in rags," reads Proverbs 23:20-21.

"Whoever slanders their neighbor in secret, I will put to silence; whoever has haughty eyes and a proud heart, I will not tolerate," (Psalm 101:5).

1 Corinthians 7:1-5 is pretty clear when it says that “each man should have sexual relations with his own wife, and each woman with her own husband.”

Leviticus 19:31: “‘Do not turn to mediums or seek out spiritists, for you will be defiled by them. I am the Lord your God.”

Mark 10: 11-12 is pretty clear about this. “Anyone who divorces his wife and marries another woman commits adultery against her. And if she divorces her husband and marries another man, she commits adultery.”

“You have heard that it was said, ‘You shall not commit adultery.’ But I tell you that anyone who looks at a woman lustfully has already committed adultery with her in his heart," (Matthew 5:27-28).

“Keep my decrees. Do not mate different kinds of animals. Do not plant your field with two kinds of seed. Do not wear clothing woven of two kinds of material,” reads Leviticus 19:19.

forfeited

“No one who has been emasculated by crushing or cutting may enter the assembly of the LORD,” reads Deuteronomy 23:1.

“Let your women keep silence in the churches: for it is not permitted unto them to speak; but they are commanded to be under obedience as also saith the law,” reads 1 Corinthians 14:34.
=============================
The dissolution of the Holy Roman Empire occurred de facto on 6 August 1806, when the last Holy Roman Emperor, Francis II of the House of Habsburg-Lorraine, abdicated his title and released all imperial states and officials from their oaths and obligations to the empire.
MN TAG: 686
684 Shofur horn of ram? Species?
68 Shiva
75 Kali
Isis
Osiris
Zeus
Jupiter
Saturn. Planet n god
Fenris
Thesueus
Pegasus
Smaug
Balrog
Gandalf
Frodo
Conan
Luke Skywalker
et al

Metternicht soc hx commie?

Terraform, CloudFormation, Pulumi, and Kubernetes
Webhook
Bicep
ARM template

Maastricht

plug and play
IPV4 vs v6

letters patent
chartered
profession

prowess

supplication
supuration

rubric

overarching
undderscore
underpinning
overheads
bottom line

Etymol clutch play

Tuskagee
	pilots
	expt

Argmt: can't rem gndr/ethn. Vie w em. Enblight commy rationalism reductn.

ratiocinate
reify

tier

Proctor

cacophony

glossolalia
	laughter

MONEY etymol
Mammon
Lucre

Schengen visa

treaty of Rome
treaty of Brussels

manumission

Amazon Athena

clickstream

by-election
by-law
byways
highway
freeway
tollgate
turnpike

UNESCO world heritage site
petroglyph
Petra city
barrio
bodega
bistro

nephrologist 

Domino theory. Bs?
Chinese whispers model of mn errors
	track back method?

etymol prerogative

Affine
afficionado?]

extemporise

contemporaneous

epub impromptu speech
	spont

designation

instigate

contiguous

exhibit
inhibit
extrinsic

astigmatism

PPL unifoirmity nature hume

Choleric Cholera Bile

Rgmt
	Gm cemetry better kept than usa me they bad
		me they own
		enlightmt bs

unkempt?]

silver lining 

gig economy bs

stint
stent

scion
incumbent

a cease-and-desist notice

Candace Owens' documentary The Greatest Lie Ever Sold: George Floyd and the Rise of BLM. 

dialectical
the grand narrative

detrimental

prurient
salacious

laminate

humdrum
hurdy gurdy
helter skelter

Linkedin cult

fracking

Etymol thespian
partial rhyme
hexameter


repetitious
repetitive

Title case rules

Next week/sunday week
haven't y finished. Y or N?

jk not 1 pun in ten did

FUBAR
86
Whole SHEBANG
RBAR

Foo Fighter
	r@cist tshirt

Etymol Coitus

garage band
dunedin style

letters patent
royal charter

Contrivances

Venetian "empire"
Mongol empty empire
Latin rule in east after 1204

despondent

Latifundia

quintessential

The Fall of the Titans (detail) (1588–1590) oil on canvas Artist: Cornelis van Haarlem Attack on Titan S04E01 Dir: Yūichirō Hayashi

Mensa top 2%?

charnel house
knackers yard
abbatoir?]

Pissoir

conservatorship 

movie still from 
manicure
cartier
lobby

ruled the roost

mainlanders
germane
hinterland
lintel
liminal

totem pole

rake's progress

Bell's palsy

Bell's inequality

Marus Southam interview q Snowflake:
40 mon architectural presentation
wi constant delib interruptions to see how deal w it
epub stress interview
does he do what told n cave to pressure or think independently


incessant

avid
aphid
	ants milk

MN TAG
Antony
	ant
	toe from knee

strapped for cash

buffet
smorgasbord

modality

proctored exam
proctologist

opt
apt
align
malign
malinger
hypochondriac?]

stop cheat on puellaamica by esse uxor
sly
stop pugno uxor
sly
solve crime by legalise evth

certification
accreditation

tangible
ecosystem
ecology

hey nonny
poppet?]

puppet

who wrote pinnochio
fairy tales were dark w lessons 4 kids
anc legends cleaned up by monks?

peripheral

ephemeral

tinker
dicker

Errata

Snowflake is HIPAA, PCI DSS, SOC 1 and SOC 2 Type 2 compliant, and FedRAMP Authorized

Tristan shandy
tristan and Isolde

Quay
Crescent
Avenue
Boulevade

annual leave accrued

payload

Data science repeatability issue
sui ne dico doctori 2 impress
science repeatability issue

impressario
immolate
flay

A high fidelity solution

Vulcan cannon

Ingot
Bullion
Lucre
	Filthy
Lucrative
Root of all evil
Midas
Croesus
Mansa Musa

Hellish
relish

Hellion
Scullion
Helcat
Shrew
Vixen
Bitch
Broodmare

Queasy
Qualms
Quizzical
Etymol Quiz

URI vs URL
GUID vs UUID
Active Directory vs LDAP, X500?

Math: rate of divergence
Kilobyte  = 10^12	2^10
Megaabyte = 10^12	2^20
Gigabyte  = 10^12	2^30
Terrabyte = 10^12	2^40

https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/gene/5566655
Eukaryota; Metazoa; Ecdysozoa; Arthropoda; Hexapoda; Insecta; Pterygota; Neoptera; Endopterygota; Diptera; Nematocera; Culicoidea; Culicidae; Culicinae; Aedini; Aedes; Stegomyia

Etymol stochastic

a dean

Stringent
Astringent

Bitwise
Bitshift

parallax

Whirligig

Afterburner

clapboard
particleboard
gib board
asbestos

untenable

? in Tenebrae?

Alumni

RC ban secret societies
EMP Bomb. Solar flare. 19C event
Sorbethane
Chem that crackles when walk on it

Spoor
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Taking care of yourself isn’t just a luxury – it’s essential for your wellbeing. When you prioritise self-care, you build resilience, improve your mood, and feel more in control of life’s challenges. Join the WHS team as we explore the four pillars of self-care and hour you incorporate self-care into your daily routine. ****

Remember to put your own oxygen mask on first before supporting others. 
Use helpful self-talk - Replace harsh inner criticism with words of encouragement.
It is ok to not be ok.
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
rubric
rort

Watershed
Aquifer

Type cast actors

In addition to animals found in their habitat, the people of Western Amazonia also drew depictions of humans becoming animals. These images, known as therianthropic figures, suggest that early inhabitants believed in the ability to shift between human and animal forms, possibly during spiritual rituals. 

therianthropic
motif

perpetual motion machine 2nd? law thermodynamics
Newton's laws of motion
Other sci laws?
ppl uniformity nature
Cept transition from quantum to macro
	et al?
	how model?

Profane
vulgar

antsy
pissant
fire ant
killer bee
hornet
wasp
honey bee vs bumble bee

underscores 
bottom line
Undertaker
flatlining

Mastodon
Mammoth

Cornwallis
Lafayette

allayed

Briar
bracken
burlap

IF 2 VEGANS DON’T LIKE EACH OTHER IS IT STILL CONSIDERED BEEF

debacle

All Points Bulletin

cossetted?]

corset
	whalebone
girdle
truss

Big oil saved the whales

bong

Doggerel

hearthrob
it girl

mary tyler more

Gallup poll
haylen

NAZDAQ
DOW Jones

Bull/bear mkt
in the red/black

Fortune 500
blue chip
blue riband

ribaldry

Etymol syllabus

pre-eminwnt

curtailed
courtenay?]

affirmative action program

inaugural

LBJ etymol jnsn @ knob?

Synopsis

curlicue
sabotage

pundit
afficionado

cask amontillado
Malmsey

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ben_Johnson_(Canadian_sprinter)#Late_1990s_and_beyond
The CBC radio documentary series Rewind broadcast an episode titled Ben Johnson: A Hero Disgraced [43] on September 19, 2013, for the 25th anniversary of the race, revealing 20 athletes tested positive for drugs but were cleared by the IOC at the 1988 Seoul Olympics. An International Olympic Committee (IOC) official told the CBC that endocrine profiles done at those games indicated that 80 percent of the track and field athletes tested showed evidence of long-term steroid use, although few were banned or had their medals stripped.

rescind
cinder block
cinder track

exonyms

demonym

etymol:
Pennsylvania
Chattanooga
Tennessee
Wyoming
Spokane
Alabama

anglo dutch wars

Eng fail invade south america 19c

namesake

keystone
capstpne
cornerstone
lodestone (eyymol)

Magnetic vs true north

gubernatorial

pseudonyms
commissioner

tentatively

secluded

aghast

entailed

restorative justice
artificer

Oranga Tamariki
etymol redact

meeting minutes minutiae?

sullen

disengaged

preoccupy
coercion

remand

distraught

conflict of interest

Balthazar Getty

dastardly

Walt Disney’s legacy has been haunted with allegations of antisemitism and racism. Offensive stereotypes can be found in films like ‘Fantasia’, ‘Dumbo’, and the infamous ‘Song of the South.’

frenetic

Bansky stenciller
astigmatism el greco
2022 nasa fire missile at comet?
Space flight disaster list
tunguska
landmark ruling
Maersk

at loggerheads

Time Mgmt
	arnie 5 thing per day
	only put reminder date on item w deadline (or ignore it)

Stack vs queue

array vs list vs linked list

suppurating

horizon
horizontal
zenith
azimuth

milch

mn tag:
Vision On cursive wrt style?
Wingding 6 feet under etc
Aesop fable
Pantheons

denote

overheads
underwrite
bottom line

sheeple

fly my pretties
release the hounds

brigitte bardot
jane fonda
lord haw haw
tokyo rose

namaste

Dolby
Subwoofer
Valmorgan
Hoyts

etymol vivid

in vitro

mitigate
litigate
ligature
suture

flensing

Goldman Sachs
Gordon Slater

Linsay Perigo
Bob Parker

Q= prob/understanding types:
Ez instant
Moderate requires plod
Moderate requires correct intuition/can get steps fudged
complex requires plod
complex requires correct intuition/can get steps fudged



name drop

metastasise
oncology
metaphysics

insipid
dissipate
sip

tepid
lukewarm

pertinent

collude
exfiltrate
inference
reference
deference
conference
preference

ephemeral

latent heat
	hx

IoT telematics sensors

conflagration

deflect
inflect

Livy

exude

Eudes

Livy

attenuate?]

Marconi
Avogadro
Galvani

Vulcanise rubber

etymol lent
	infest
	latent
	trite

DF Far right
	implies nazi?

epub passive aggro

berating



pron Leviathan, Behemoth

retrograde
prograde

venture capital

vicious
viscous
vicarious

declarative syntax: what not how

nigh

IRC channel
Bulletin board
APB

Google ngrams

quotidien

trite
contrite
trepanation
emanate

mutatis mutandis

incontinent

mutatis mutandis
ADVERB
(used when comparing two or more cases or situations) making necessary alterations while not affecting the main point at issue:
"what is true of undergraduate teaching in England is equally true, mutatis mutandis, of American graduate schools"

Sackcloth & Ashes

cousin's war

tendency
tendentious

kudos
pundit
horde

RC Confiteor achve need admit. Best interests pueri

paint wave off mt fuji

mediev relgs art jw alb fagan shepardic ne askenazi
Ian natlib arbs good @ sport


embargo

emporium

emperor imperator

value proposition

predicated on
syllogism

quorum

winnowing

Eukaryote

etymol epitome

mclellans plane ramp engineering hutt bom

zeitgeist

Liz Cheney
Gavin Newsom
Bolsonaro
Berlusconi

Chatham House rules, which meant information could be publicly disclosed but not attributed to any particular individual.

Working with local community leaders, we have established the Datacom Foundation – Iqra Salam Te Aroha, meaning read/learn, and peace in Arabic, and love in Māori.

salaam
kowtow
obeisance
bow
curtsey
genuflect
inflection
fletch

germ cell cancer
stem cells
cytoplasm

Foundry

eclectic

payment in-kind

montessori
steiner

tug the forelock
cap in hand

jk y ne selling it

nexus
proclivity

BCE
CE

promptuary
sumptuary
oil sump

maul, hammer, mallet, sledge, fissure, anneal, temper, forge
mold mould

sepulchre

vanguard

route an army
usa v eng pron route

crim hist is public record (ne goss) unless name suppression
clean slate masks it ne wipes it

privileged
entitled

affiliate

alumni
alma mater

think tank

dicastery

stricture

deferential

larrikin
inaugurated
mockumentary

New Lad Culture

blazoned

Shofur

stoke

sleuth

blackface

mn tag b52. Plane. Band songs. Rock lobster. Love shack
	lancaster bomber
	spitfire #'s
	zero fighter
	Me 101
	F17
	Mirage
	Harrier jumpjet
	747
	tigermoth
	sopwith camel
	name wright bros plane
	T-72 tank
	1st tank
	sherman tank

upshot

self: panic: q makes ne sense
	vs
		how they miswrite this. what really meant?

Mn tag Korea 38th parallel
	Lewis clarke meriweather
	Mason Dixon line
Antonine wall
walls of rome
	constantinople

sutton hoo
bog bodies

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Medical_diagnosis#Etymology
The word diagnosis /daɪ.əɡˈnoʊsɪs/ is derived through Latin from the Greek word διάγνωσις (diágnōsis) from διαγιγνώσκειν (diagignṓskein), meaning "to discern, distinguish".[19]

abated

occlude

heuristics
eeking out performance

-able vs -ible

homonym
phoneme
acronym
sysnoyn
antonym
et al

tangram
anagram

Aesop's fables numbering

don't overthink it

intractable

forfeit

with a grain of salt

fixating

tariff
excise
mercantilism

brazenness

brassy

meager

Mechanical Turk

Google Ngram

jk stoppd count after 0

augment

arg
	mid class educ fear accusn stult so tow liet 2 xperts

arg
	Q= hidden so > likely blief powers
	Phy eg str ne hidden so opp
	exa: no blief lift 10000 kg or throm 10 K m
		me blief 10% qe used so farfetched feat

innate: str. canne lift 10000kg
	non innate: skill
		so will skill/xp beat non xp by more than str can beat weak in lift
	slq Q=

ETYMOL:
Emetic
Emolient
Humectant
Emulsifier

priory
abbey
monastery
convent
nunnery
seminary
dicastery
presbytery

cloister
belfry

delve

unctuous
smarmy

faux pas

Formidable

Russia
	biggest bell
	Biggest nuke Bomb

caucus

conniption

substack

exculpate
exigency

debacle
diatribe

earwig
monitor lizard

patio

formulas
formulae

fluctuations
flux
fluxions?] Newton
reflux

arg
	thesp recite lines given
	journos write lines given

robust discussion

philosopher Yuval Noah Harari

https://www.msn.com/en-nz/news/other/this-is-why-putin-won-t-win-in-ukraine/ss-AA13UlGz?ocid=entnewsntp&cvid=fe268c6fadcc4860a88d623bdd9a0f74#image=14
Galeotti considers that Putin would be exercising 'Strategic patience': Stalling in the hopes that Ukraine and its supporters will eventually tire down of fighting.
Famous philosopher Yuval Noah Harari wrote a thinkpiece for The Guardian about how Russia has already lost the war: “this war is likely to be long-lasting. Taking different forms, it may well continue for years. But the most important issue has already been decided”.
Above predicated on Putin want rule Ukrn. Wants crimea & Donbass + Ukrn ne in NATO


cadence


etymol sympathise

simpatico
syncopate

harassment

------------
https://www.msn.com/en-nz/news/national/west-must-prepare-for-many-ways-iran-protest-movement-could-end-badly/ar-AA13V2Wa?ocid=entnewsntp&cvid=575a7760f4594cb2a64d8125e76d7c46
The constitution of the Islamic Republic of Iran derives from principles of Twelver Shia Islam, a religion not well understood outside the Middle East. Indeed, it is a minority religion even in the Islamic world, most of which is Sunni.

Shia Islam differs from Sunni Islam in the belief that the Prophet Muhammad’s rightful successors should have been his blood relatives, following hereditary dynastic succession. When Muhammad died in 632, the state he had established was expanding rapidly. Muhammad fathered no sons, but some early Muslims believed his rightful successor was Ali ibn Talib, his paternal cousin and son-in-law, thereafter Ali’s sons (Muhammad’s grandsons), and so on through their male descendants.

In practice, the early Islamic caliphate chose Muhammad’s successors from his closest companions. Ali, as one of those companions, became Muhammad’s fourth successor, but his death in 661 sparked a civil war in which his children, Muhammad’s grandchildren, were defeated and massacred. Muhammad’s great-grandchildren and further male descendants survived, but were held under close surveillance and typically died by poison on the orders of Sunni caliphs.

Eventually, one of Muhammad’s direct male descendants, Muhammad ibn Hasan, who according to Shia reckoning would have been Muhammad’s 12th successor, went into hiding. In his last message to his followers, written in 941, he promised to reappear “after a very long time when people will have grown tired of waiting and those who are weak in their faith will say: What! Is he still alive?”

Twelver Shia Islam, named after the 12 known successors, ascribes legitimate political power to the hidden 12th successor, known as the 12th imam, and only to him. The hidden imam is the legitimate ruler of the entire world. Devout Twelver Shia ardently await his return and global rule, much as devout Christians ardently await the second coming of Jesus and the establishment of his kingdom.

Shia jurists have developed theories of good government in the absence of the 12th imam. The key concept, developed in the 16th Century, is the “Guardianship of the Jurist”. The basic idea is that mullahs – religious scholars knowledgeable in Shia religious law –can wield legitimate authority in his absence.
------------

In 1755, a historically huge earthquake struck Portugal, sending a calamitous tsunami to destroy much of the country’s west coast. Three huge waves reportedly came one after the other, reaching as high as 100 ft (30 m) in some places. The terrible tsunami hit Portugal, Spain, and Morocco, killing an estimated 60,000 people.

df lagoon
lacuna

bilabong

shinto

saffa braai

showcased

incumbent

runoff

quipped

lukewarm

modal

laminate
vinyl

honoree

meticulous
Athens metic

brinksmanship

think tank

etymol radical

free radicals

touted

entreaty
treatment
treats

contretemps

extempoize

attestations

redoubt

Stress over wk, Anorex, bulim
	1st world probs
		mean comment?

context switching

Firefox
	lightbox? show what's parasiting on y browsing

shambolic

nabatean

a yes-man

Amerind war adopt reversal
	weak natrl bonds so soc collapsed under pressure

Mike Tyson's famous quote about everyone having a plan until they get punched in the mouth could easily apply to every politician promising openness and transparency until they get into power.

hussar
cossack

tommy gun
lewis gun
gatling

Black hole of Calcutta

Weestern mercs congo 60's

Mark Thatcher

Sharpevile massacre

Masai Slavers

mother jones
mother goose

The Ludlow Massacre

Peterloo masacre
Frederick Douglass
	pro atroc?

garner

jackpot

chemtrails

Dahomey wn wrrs king bodyguard

Attack of New Ulm, Minnesota during the 1862 Dakota War,
Thomas R. Livingston – Confederate Guerilla
Mothman

strapping

The Life and Legend of the Sultan Saladin. By Jonathan Phillips.Yale University Press; 520 pages; $32.50. Bodley Head; £25.

regalia

intersectionality

heinous

Dapper

battle royale

acacia thorns

blunderbuss

scourge

Scramble for Africa

carbine covered with cowries

lull
lullaby

valiantly

repel
rappel
abseil

canister shot
salvo
fusillade
bombardment
volley

courtiers

juxtaposed


painting: atroc afric village massacre vir hogtie tree watch achv
https://www.google.com/search?q=winged+hussar+charge+vienna&tbm=isch&ved=2ahUKEwj3jcD6jaX7AhU5h-YKHTGUDBgQ2-cCegQIABAA&oq=winged+hussar+charge+vienna&gs_lcp=CgNpbWcQAzIHCAAQgAQQGDoECCMQJzoHCCMQ6gIQJ1DmClj7owNgtKoDaARwAHgAgAGuAYgB1gKSAQMwLjKYAQCgAQGqAQtnd3Mtd2l6LWltZ7ABCsABAQ&sclient=img&ei=HLdtY_ePJLmOmgexqLLAAQ&bih=1039&biw=1825#imgrc=gAaQJT48AhMtDM
https://www.google.com/search?q=haiti+revolution&sxsrf=ALiCzsaiF4icKTE14-bWlC-4h14ZR1JHcA:1668135231737&source=lnms&tbm=isch&sa=X&ved=2ahUKEwjz3rL_j6X7AhXM7XMBHXbUB7UQ_AUoAXoECAIQAw&biw=1825&bih=1039&dpr=1


comancheros

Ivory tower etymol

Jacobins

subsistence

commandeering

sporadic
soporific

sortie

etymol precipitate
precipice

consternation

subaltern

poniard

amnesty

seccession
succession

per se

expedient
expedite

Argmt, RC:
	Luc Promethean		- malus me oth focussed?]
	Sat hedonist-epicurean	- malus me self focussed
Grubs & (Middle) & Titans
Chimera & Nephs

baby boomer
Gen X
	y
	millennial

Chromosomes
	XY
	et al

blood types

internecine

perdonsgr?]

Academy etymol
Lycaeum
Peripatetic
Quote above Pythag school


patois
argot
cant

Punch mag

Brighton rock

backlash

small c conservative

argmt: put aside fact cs & focus on logic

Oxfam
Telecom

aftermath
crass
polymath

belittling

contributory negligence

rebuffed
Sticks and stones etymol

etymol debate
juncture
fixture
admixture
mixture
micturate
nictate
etymol nicotine
curtail

etymol bias

Reagan Star Wars
	killer satellites

an episodic show, with few overarching stories
Monster of the week

cigarillos

'rogue pilot with a heart of gold' cliché

bemoaning

Godded him. Shksp

“Jack of all trades.”
Tom Dick Harry

robber barons
Hert horiz monopoly cartel

Derring-Do

strafe etymol

social engineering attacks
epub social engineering

diatribe

defame
libel
slander

sedition
treachery

burglary
larceny

insider trading

due diligence

awash

boycott
sabotage

sans coulots
Marat in bath peint

whistleblowing

contravene
Russ crowe movie tobacco whistleblower

detriment

duty of care
due diligence

bias etymol

SC reader/wrt bias
1+1=2

Pseudonymization

imminent
eminent

affect
	RC
effect

do see do
paso doble

practical
practicable
pragmatic
pragma

nexus

systematic
susyemic

sense
sensibility
maudlin
sentimental

snub

detente
entente

jubta
coup
	colonels
putsch

croatoan
roanoke

embroiled

imbroglio

fixation

character actor

vinegar drive of vermin?
epub household hints

showrunner
greenlit
green screen?

despondent

impel
pell mell
imperil

pall mall

unabashed

debased

breech clout

emceed
compere

echelon

Pentecostal

mere
allegory
subsidiaries
subsidise
pastoral

Emmy and Golden Globe
broadway - tony award
oscar/academy award

Movie: Hellraiser: Inferno.

inauguration
bar none

Tuskegee Airmen
	syphlis

EPUB:
scot empire
danish caribbean
	list of euop
glencoe massacre
eng colony africa cromwell
new model army
richard hatch galactica
epub social engineering

salve

bollard

lectionary
lecturn
rostrum

etymol soccer
year rugby invented

leeward
in the lee of
headwind
upwind
downstream

naptha

stereo sound
subwoofer
dolby

binocular vision

1st movie
	colour
	talkie
marconi radio year
avogadro's number

1up sc noyed
	q
	that sound like challenge
	response
	y ne gt do that

response
sponsor

spoor
spore

deplete
complete
replete
expletive

pharmacology
philology

prescience

etymol Haiti

diff alligator croc
	caiman

Melanated people
spiel

List of hist battle cries

T S Elliot?] the wasteland
belle dame sans merci

Xtn
vertical fellowship
horiz fellowship

Hermione
Phryne

felony
larceny
burglary

Emerson bs Suolar storm/flare EMP

aficionado
toreador

aria

scoffs
scofflaw
escrow
real estate
estates general
4th estate
5th column

relentless

tinder
kindling
snuff
ember
=================================================================
Bach, Johann Sebastian: Minuet for Harpsichord in G major
opera song in nz rail scenic route ad

Doco: "1804"- The Haitian Revolution
=================================================================

kno aile gauche cos try justify mass mort on idealog grounds

rappaport

all sonshine doth desert make

desert dessert

breeches doth combust
equine quadruped et al

transfixed

laid waste

cataclysm
catastrophe
apostrophe
strobe

bunsen burner

mendacity
duplicity
ambivalent
straddle

despondent

guile

genealogy of ideas

disenfranchise
franking
frankincense
incensed?]
incendiary
flammable inflammable

prosperous
prospero

epitome etymol

lustre
tarnish
patina
verdigris
pewter

porcelain

disenchanted
lacklustre?]

decorum
comport

masquerade

scorched earth

etymol Haiti

indemnity

cabaret

blowback

backdraft

pre-empt

itinerant
journeyman
peripatetic
patheos
apotheosis
lyceum
none ignorant geom enter here
abandon hope all enter here in italian
academy
1up mh gnrnt pretend said ignt


tryst

scandal

hedged about
prestige

parsimony

bier
touchstone
lodestone

Thomas Merton
Ant de Mello
Teilhard de chardin (daemn)


Psalter

I was tonsured
let's fun
Godded him shksp

repudiation
etymol hyperbole
hypothermia

exuberance
EXPIATE

doled out
etymol sarcasm
	irony

In 1954, “under God” was added to the Pledge of Allegiance, and in 1956 “In God We Trust” became the national motto.

mendicant

Hanoi Jane
Tokyo Rose
Lord Haw Haw
Benedict Arnold
Quisling
Vichy

hallmark

rapprochement
ostensible

abstruse

etymol sophomore

evanesced
mutual friend
mutual admiration soc

postulants
influx

duplex
suplex
multiplex
complex
perspex
gib board
particle board

angst
ennui

tawdry
allure

craps

bs etymol
	tom crapper
	vienna croissant
folk etymol

squandered
dissipated

stipulates

prosody
sprung rhythm
blank verse (eliot tennis net down)

mountbatten paed?

antioxidant

austere

tirade

tendentious
mentor etymol
mentee

bestowed
elegaic

Conundrum
extant
extent

Epithalamion

eisegesis
sublimation

dissolution monasteries

excoriate
paywall

plowman poet
	plough

fecund
fallow
furlough
furlong

etymol
	kilo
	mega
	et al
Nautical mile
	click
league
sterling
guinea
talent of gold


foregone
forlorn

debacle etymol

Flocculator
epoxy
HVAC

	
Palo Alto

Walter Cronkite?

epub propaganda
	index librorum

work will set y free auschwitz

bollard

epub eat root shoot leave punctuation

Erowid Psilocybin

sentential
sentient
prescient

wherewithal
hereafter
heretofore
therefore
wherefore
wherein
therein

muslin

The world's most visited museum, the Louvre
Paris the City of Light

etymol nostalgia

transient

etymol syndrome

Back in 11th-century Italy, forks were actually considered sacrilegious.

tomatoes mediev thot poison?

1up mh y boast amas x?
	cos that ne wierd

is experiencing a purple patch in his career

careening

entrusted

encrusted

pantomime villains

'Everyone backs the underdogs and we know we are the favourites.
'We'll go in with humble confidence and make sure that we are practising in the areas we know we need to fix up.'

Malaysia Airlines flight MH17

Oblast
Palatinate

Pangea, a supercontinent that existed from 200 million to 335 million years ago

Lazarus

linchpins
vaunted
dauntless
juggernaut
yacht futch

etymol parse

rort
redact
rubric
rube
redneck

Lehman Brothers

callypygean?]
Venus de Milo

moulting
dander

debriefing
briefcase
the brief given me
briefs

imbed/embed?]

acacia

get one's awe?] in?

batch (group)
bach house

Net
gross
tare

pagination

duplicity
equivocate
sensibility

etymol irritate

is what it is
horse head in bed

info vs data vs knoldge

2022:
Generation Zs (15-24 year-olds) and Millennials (25-34 year olds)

discretionary
saturateed fat
polysaturated

7 f/r's of biology

LP
EP
Platinum defn

social construct

lapel badge

garner
aisle

fervent

fervid

equerry

prelude
postlude

plainsong

Subduction Zone

depredation

Fisher’s definition of kurtosis

transpose
juxtapose

ben bulben
ben nevis

cadence

The Sympathizer, a drama series adaptation of Viet Thanh Nguyen’s Pulitzer Prize-winning novel

hirsute
using a pair of electric clippers to remove his barnet.

showrunner
sultry

novella

assailant

Grand Jury
Grand Larceny

sporadic

Carnegie

injunction

bifurcate

albeit

heuristics

grifter
bilk

Duke and Duchess of Sussex

gray grey

Drusilla

kabalarian philosophy

namaste
sayonary
kumbaya

altercation

bum rush

ziegfield follies
Moulin rouge
vaudeville
burlesque

reprised
reprisal
comprise

probity

verdict

resoundingly

dounds
e gad

tantamount
sisyphus

dounds
e gad

a soldier went to war

Subduction Zone

tyre tire
tread
sidewall
whitewall billy joel

cabaret

amassed

literary device

etymol stagnation
stagflation

imputation

impugn

Le Corbusier happy

oxymoron

jk demeaning the meaning

Brahmin?]

confetti

detractors
the term "gypsy day", to refer to the date on which dairy sharemilkers move around the country
Romany community

Disney’s streaming platform updated its content advisory notice on racism to include Dumbo (for its depiction of the crows, one of whom is named Jim), and The Jungle Book (for King Louie the ape, shown to be lazy and singing Dixie jazz).

TVNZ had to accept a broadcasting standards complaint that its use of the term "gypsy day", to refer to the date on which dairy sharemilkers move around the country, was a racial slur against the Romany community.

To interpret why the debates about racism become so incendiary, a little context is needed. Behind the ranting and raving lies much that is highly formalised and carefully constructed. The skill of talking to each other is one part art, two parts science. It’s the ancient science of rhetoric – persuasive speaking. European settlers came to New Zealand at a time when rhetoric was dropping off the higher education syllabus in Britain, but here in Aotearoa, the art of persuasive oratory was highly prized on marae, as it still is today. The way that Māori talk about Pākehā in formal settings is artful compared with the way in which some Pākehā bang on about Māori in Facebook taunts and talkback radio harangues.
n vice versa

Tuia 250, the government-sponsored commemoration for the 250th anniversary of the arrival of HMS Endeavour in Aotearoa in 1769–70

Karl Du Fresne
Lindsay Perigo
Peter Sinclair
Bib Parker

Telethon

disease dis-ease
disabuse

belittle

Becoming Pakeha: A journey between two cultures by John Bluck

freehold land

pasture

a 2×2 fence batten

ombudsman

math: complement

CamelCase

lacustrine: relating to, formed in, living in, or growing in lakes
an attributive noun

demonym

moratorium
symposium
Summit

ECG
NMR

etymol alternate. antonytms, synonyms

overheads
underwrite
undertaker
bottom line
in the red

onomastician
corpus linguist

masticate

stint
stent
effulgent

philology

tax evade vs avoid

antiphon

The amendment would add protection to a certain part of the legislation, requiring a special majority to repeal it in the future. This type of legislative action - called entrenchment - has previously only been used for changes to the Electoral Act, the experts say.

snatched victory from the jaws of defeat

accordingly

parentheses
braces
brackets
==========================================================================================================
mn tag st andrews limes 30 nov
	halloween
	guy fawkes
	anzac day
	waitangi day
	Irsh indep day
	Samoa indep day
	40 acres mule
	40 thieves
	40 years desert jw wander
	# loaves fishes
	pentecost 50
	septuagint
	Gk #s
	Hebrw #'s
	cuneiform #'s
The doors band
mn ppl
	looks like
	sounds like. Rhyme
	trans oth lang
	synonym
	person/place/thing named sly
	thing often assoc w
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Star_Trek:_Deep_Space_Nine
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/17
	https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/17_October_Revolution
	https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Seventeen_(Tarkington_novel)
	https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/17_Again_(film)
	https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/At_Seventeen
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/30_Rock
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/32
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/33
	https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Los_33
		https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_33
	https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Thirty_Three_(film)
	https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Thirty-Three_(song)
	https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/33_(Battlestar_Galactica)
	https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/%2B33
		+33, the international calling code for France
	https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Alfa_Romeo_33
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/34
	+34, the international calling code for Spain
	https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Rule_34_(disambiguation)
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/37
	https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Murder_of_Kitty_Genovese
	https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/9-1-1
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/501(c)(3)_organization
==========================================================================================================
Marduk

emblematic
apathy
bathos

actor out on loan

sallow
callow

A melody (from Greek μελῳδία, melōidía, "singing, chanting"

df:
french farce
reagedy
comedy
et al?
metaphor etymol
	vehicle tenor

Catastrophe or catastrophic comes from the Greek κατά (kata) = down; στροφή (strophē) = turning (Greek: καταστροφή).

Etymology 1 [ edit] From French apostrophe, or Latin apostrophus, from Ancient Greek ἀπόστροφος (apóstrophos, “accent of elision”), a noun use of an adjective from ἀποστρέφω (apostréphō, “I turn away”), from ἀπό (apó, “away from”) + στρέφω (stréphō, “to turn”). Alternative forms [ edit]
apostrophe - Wiktionary
en.wiktionary.org/wiki/apostrophe
https://www.etymonline.com/word/apostrophe
"mark indicating an omitted letter," 1580s, from French apostrophe, from Late Latin apostrophus, from Greek apostrophos (prosoidia) "(the accent of) turning away," thus, a mark showing where a letter has been omitted, from apostrephein "avert, turn away," from apo "off, away from" (see apo-) + strephein "to turn" (from PIE root *streb(h)- "to wind, turn").

flatus
inflation

genuflect
kowtow
bow
salaam?
curtsey
obeisance?]

grom means a youngin

https://www.dictionary.com/e/slang/grom/
Grom, shortened from grommet, is Australian and Californian slang for a young, often precocious surfer. Gremmie is a common synonym.

pragmatism

resounding
absentees

nous

to attack the space rather than the defender in front of them
inkling

guile
beguile

belittle

bemoan

bedazle
bemuse

amicus brief

parody

cameo etymol

OCR official cash rate

====================================================================================
https://www.thesaurus.com/browse/verbose
SYNONYMS FOR verbose:
bombastic
circumlocutory
diffuse
flowery
full of air
fustian
gabby
garrulous
grandiloquent
involved
loquacious
magniloquent
palaverous
periphrastic
pleonastic
prolix
redundant
repeating
repetitious
repetitive
rhetorical
talkative
talky
tautological
tautologous
tedious
tortuous
windy
yacking

ANTONYMS FOR verbose
MOST RELEVANT
concise
succinct

https://www.merriam-webster.com/thesaurus/verbose
using or containing more words than necessary to express an idea
had to wade through a verbose letter of complaint
Synonyms & Similar Words

Relevance
rambling
prolix
talkative
wordy
circumlocutory
exaggerated
long-winded
garrulous
diffuse
redundant
pleonastic
communicative
conversational
circuitous
logorrheic
loquacious
voluble
talky
chatty
windy
repetitious
gabby
tautological
tautologous
periphrastic
bombastic
gaseous
grandiloquent
gassy
embellished
hifalutin
embroidered
highfalutin

Antonyms & Near Antonyms

terse
concise
succinct
pithy
short
compact
brief
crisp
epigrammatic
sententious
aphoristic
summary
abbreviated
laconic
compendious
condensed
blunt
brusque
curt
abridged
abrupt
snippy
shortened
brusk

https://www.synonyms.com/antonyms/verbose
verboseadjective

Antonyms:
terse, concise

Synonyms:
wordy, long-winded

verboseadjective

Abounding in words, containing more words than necessary. Long winded, or windy.

Even the most jingoistic of native-speakers of Spanish admit their language is verbose; compared to what can be said in a sentence in English, it sometimes takes a paragraph of explanation in Spanish to say the same thing.

Antonyms:
terse, concise

Synonyms:
wordy, long-winded

verboseadjective

Producing unusually detailed output for diagnostic purposes.

Synonyms:
long-winded, wordy

Antonyms:
terse, concise
verbose

Garrulous signifies given to constant trivial talking. Chattering signifies uttering rapid, noisy, and unintelligible, or scarcely intelligible, sounds, whether articulate words or such as resemble them; chattering is often used of vocal sounds that may be intelligible by themselves but are ill understood owing to confusion of many voices or other cause. The talkative person has a strong disposition to talk, with or without an abundance of words, or many ideas; the loquacious person has an abundant flow of language and much to say on any subject suggested; either may be lively and for a time entertaining; the garrulous person is tedious, repetitious, petty, and self-absorbed. Verbose is applied to utterances more formal than conversation, as to writings or public addresses. We speak of a chattering monkey or a chattering idiot, a talkative child, a talkative or loquacious woman, a garrulous old man, a verbose writer. Compare CIRCUMLOCUTION.

Antonyms:
laconic, reserved, reticent, silent, speechless, taciturn

Synonyms:
chattering, garrulous, loquacious, talkative

verbose

Antonyms:
curt, laconic, succinct, terse, concise

Synonyms:
windy, prolix, prosy, tedious
long-winded, tedious, verbose, windy, wordyadjective

using or containing too many words

"long-winded (or windy) speakers"; "verbose and ineffective instructional methods"; "newspapers of the day printed long wordy editorials"; "proceedings were delayed by wordy disputes"

Antonyms:
concise

Synonyms:
dull, wearisome, windy, wordy, boring, blowy, tedious, slow, impractical, airy, tiresome, breezy, ho-hum, long-winded, irksome, visionary, deadening
====================================================================================

tendentious
vapid

Herbert Marcuse
Antonio Grammsci?]

Auguste Comte

become so gun shy

humber

capriciousness

mulled over

etymol spectrum
	mortgage
arbitrage

escrow
real estate

4th estate
5th column

constituent
constituency
constitution

accosted

entrenchment
retrenchment

pron"
behemoth
leviathan

pushing of a political counter-narrative

memsahib

the longest day

Mn:
the big red one
the green mile
the green man
pink (singer)

epub: closing the deal

yardstick

irradiation

pejorative
connotations

tortoise 200 yo?

oldest tree

DF:
test match
test cap

emblazon
trail blazer
blazer
blase/

emphatic

voluminous

movie sophie's choice

Gloria Steinem

on remand

trenchant

overt

oil shock in 1974
Official cash rate

lukewarm
lure
lucre
press the flesh
work the room

defrock

501K?
401K?

Gilead

Mahout
Mush
whoah
Giddyap

yardstick

Mn tag:
V8
12 guage shotgun
12 bar r n blues
18 hole golf. Birdie, Bogie, "4!", +4's
Cricket 6
303 slug
basic 101
error 401
1521 Oracle
1433 Sequel
80 website
tab char 9
middle c 440?
red wavelength/freq
5 eyes oz nz usa...
100 eyes marco polo
100 arms gk myth?


etymol handicap

An alembic (from Arabic: الإنبيق, romanized: al-inbīq, originating from Ancient Greek: ἄμβιξ, romanized: ambix, 'cup, beaker')[1][2][3] is an alchemical still consisting of two vessels connected by a tube, used for distillation of liquids.

etymol paradigm

banal

munging
demungificationisator
relplendent
resplurgent

sallow
callow

untenable

NKVD

adamant
nectar
ambrosia
aegis
gordian knot
sword damocles

KGB
Gestapo
Stasi

necessary evil

necessary sufficient

caldera
lahar
Tangiwai
	Bert Sutcliffe?

mottled
motley

concoction
pans past

Whakaari white island

wharf
jetty

unfurl

excruciating

ring of fire, pacific rim, johnny cash

subduction zone

pyroclastic flow
plasma
lava
magma

tologa bay
bay of islands

marina

sacristy

helter-skelter

lethal etymol

internment
messmates

tallow

pyre
bier

avowed

callousness

ds skirmish. At what point becomes battle
diminutuve

Enduring Power of Attorney

refrain

probate fees
reprobate

liquidating estates

misappropriating money

the global financial crisis

subsidiaries

secondment
traduce

trenchant

bequests

disdain

galore

People’s trust in government tends to grow during times of crisis, as they rely on public institutions to address complex challenges, a phenomenon known as “rallying around the flag.”3 But, while vital, such trust is also fragile, and research suggests that large gains in trust are often quickly lost.4

showcasing

extortion

Chads
Karens
Susan parish council

calico
calypso

going postal. Original ref

asia minor
magna graecia
near east
west asia

mausoleum
sarcophagus

panalquin
trapeze
parasol
umbrella
rickshaw et al

The longest day

Fresno
Fargo

Ombudsman
Comptroller
QC
Quango

Verb the Noun:
leveraging
architecting
Comical exas of
Make up such

pristine

serviceable?]

Em Sutich problem bks 1 on probability n 1 on stats schaum

polymath

relational calculus epub
lambda calc

WITHHOLDING TAX

Janus

Freemium
Portmanteau

Confiteor

catalyzing
amalgam
enzyme
protein
amino acid
emulsifier
solvent
solute
ester fish
humectant

> journos in spin than news

mince his words
mealy mouthed

flying fish

Geodetic

etymol proposition
preposition
predicate

sui:
	presence
		SKnight
		JFleming

sui generis

centre bs center

tussle

stark

uptick

nz bee ne honey

norwegian rat
german wasp?

bad nightmare

Mn confed flag 13 stars?
The American Civil War broke out in 1861. Increased expansion towards the west brought up the question if new US states should allow or ban slavery. Southern states, which were mostly agricultural, saw slavery as an integral part of their economy and social order.
Jim Crow laws
the US Supreme Court declared in 1954 that segregation in public schools was illegal
dixiecrats
George Wallace, in fact, ran as a third-party candidate in the 1968 Presidential Election and managed to carry five southern states. He remains the last non-Republican, non-Democratic candidate to win any state in a US presidential election.

rejuvenate

Apples for apples
	comp oranges

MN:
Geographically, Dixie usually means the eleven Southern states that seceded from the United States of America in late 1860 and early 1861 to form the Confederate States of America. They are listed below in order of secession:[a]
South Carolina
Mississippi
Florida
Alabama
Georgia
Louisiana
Texas
Virginia
Arkansas
North Carolina
Tennessee

argmt: euop cathedrals $ from enslaved

honorific

furtive

porcelain
royal doulton
wedgewood

etymol contraband

The projects in brooklyn
terraced housing
	estates

prospectus

proctor
proctologist

fantasy football

Professor
	associate
	emeritus
tenured

Amazon: epub:
alan turing
football iq
tennis iq
boxing iq
footwork
bob weave
breakfalls
throwing baseball
throwing cricket
throwing discus
throwing shotput
throwing javelin
track and field
longjump
sprinting
swimming freestyle
kayak eskimo roll
Thomism
Leather handbags

tarnish
rust
patina
oxidise

free radical

Mn tag:
fortune 500
G7
UN sec council #
OECD #
Opec #
Arab League #

blue chip

divisor
dividend
quotient

Share trading

mercantilism

epub:
Adam smith wealth of nations
Malthus popn
Alexis De Tocqueville
Thomas Paine
Nietsche
Ed Fezer
Thomas pyncheon
	Hobbes
John Locke
David Hume
Thomism

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
JavaScript vs Java for Game Development
We often hear people compare JavaScript and Java and even sometimes incorrectly use these words interchangeably. In actuality, JavaScript and Java are completely unrelated and the main thing that they have in common is that they are both programming languages containing the word “Java.”

JavaScript is an interpreted scripting language while Java is a compiling language. As an interpreted scripting language, code does not need to be compiled. Instead, results are interpreted by a user’s command. This is why it works so well when creating websites. Users are often clicking around and scrolling on a website, which is input that JavaScript can use to perform an action accordingly.

Java, however, requires code to be compiled before it can be run. That means the code is translated into a machine language for the computer to understand.
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Anodyne
cathode
anode

recalcitrant
shrive

The flagship TV channel of AMC Networks originally stood for "American Movie Classics," but shed that name in 2002 and is now simply "AMC" in conjunction with a shift in its programming.

Exegesis

Dilettante

dismay

provenance

pennant
pendragon

wanton

ostensibly

Lithograph

The gilded age
gilded youth
Americian Indian sign language
Americian Indian smoke signals

Catlins
Hamptons
Grampians
Kamarg
Central Massif

endemism
endomorph

archipelago
isthmus
peninsula

lahar
caldera
pyroclastic flow
lava
magma
pumice

boilerplate stump speeches

hustings

MN TAG:
the 38 Australian citizens and residents who were killed when Malaysia Airlines flight MH17 was shot down by Russian-led forces in 2014.

Japanese attack on Pearl Harbour in 1941.

payment in kind
etymol contraband

backdrop

news bulletins

pernicious

physiognomy

milieu

putatively

demarcate

posited

jargon to include/verbal shortcuts vs exclude
etymol jargon
jingoism



deryfus affair

treatise

foundering

fetid
foetid?

when was spelling standardised. When split w usa
sly pron
why nz oz accent diff usa

integument

denouement

presaging

impinged

wampum
pemmican


epub:
Max Weber started all this out [with The Protestant Ethic and the Spirit of Capitalism].”
Bernard Bailyn, historian, Voyagers to the West.
Ron Rosenbaum is the author of seven books of nonfiction, including The Shakespeare Wars: Clashing Scholars, Public Fiascoes, Palace Coups, and How the End Begins: The Road to a Nuclear World War III. An updated edition of his book, Explaining Hitler: The Search for the Origins of His Evil is being published by DaCapo/Perseus Books.

SMITHSONIAN
GUGENHEIM?]

triumvirate

internecine
--------------------------------------------------------------------------
Walter Cronkite
Dan Rather
Tom Brokaw
--------------------------------------------------------------------------
Interregnum
Regency
Industrial Revolution

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Category:Cultural_generations
Lost Generation
Greatest Generation
Interbellum Generation
Silent Generation, also known as the Traditionalist Generation
Baby boomers
Generation X
	Generation Y?
Millennials
Generation Z
Generation Alpha

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Roaring_Twenties
	https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ann%C3%A9es_folles
	https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Golden_Twenties
swinging 60's

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Harlem_Renaissance
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Jazz_Age

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Category:American_literary_movements
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Modernity

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/History_of_penicillin
pill
opprobrium
--------------------------------------------------------------------------

intelligentsia?]
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Benjamin_Spock

congenital

transpire
perspire
expire
aspire
spire
conspire
inspire
respirate

a turn-key solution for securing access

typhoid mary

mainstay

Ralph Waldo Emerson?]

a boon for

user pays twice

robust vs durable

boil the frog

feign

phlebotomy
lanoline
linament

touchstone issues

your phone’s IMEI number

Enron

machination

embezzlement

axonal transport
cytoskeleton

Hedge fund

https://knowyourstuff.nz/

fewer/less
shall/will
much/many

arraigned

simpering

ww1 eng exec shell shock abbattoir

cromwell colony africa?

riddled with

threshold
sub liminal
hinterland
literal
littoral

etymol
	Diego
	Madonna
Pieta

Chrism
feeding the 5K
	et al?

nino esporito hawkes bay seafood mpi 80 agent raid$3-4 million fine

desperado

el nino
la nina

dulcet

scathing

dulcimer

"The floatingly bland plot is like a children’s story without the humour; a YA story without the emotional wound; an action thriller without the hard edge of real excitement."

Michael Hill mgk?

non-briny smell

glyph

process nazi
routine hugger
grammar police
grade whoring
war porn
grief porn

indemnity

mn tag cloud 9
silver lining

open letter

excise

dwindling

At 35, and in his last chance to emulate countryman Diego Maradona with a World Cup title, Messi scored two goals, as Argentina defeated France in a penalty shootout to lift the Jules Rimet trophy for the third time.

talisman

frenetic

chagrin

marc chagall

eg e.g. exemplo gratias?]

AJacobs how sign cheque
Mri bossy army McD's 1988

Conspiracy denial

no business like shoah business
Naqba

floaters in eyes

coprolite

secrete
concrete

DF: STOKE:
to poke or stir up (a fire, flames, etc.) : supply with fuel. : to feed abundantly. 3. : to increase the activity, intensity, or amount of.
to add fuel to a large fire and move the fuel around with a stick so that it burns well and produces a lot of heat:.
noun Physics. a unit of kinematic viscosity, equal to the viscosity of a fluid in poises divided by the density of the fluid in grams per cubic centimeter.


ZYXWVUTSRQPONMLKJIHGFEDCBA

boy who criedolf
peter and the wolf
night on bear mountain
hall of the mountain king

abscond

sconce

succour

about face

stent
stint
gromit?]
grout

permalink
permafrost
tundra
taiga
carr

cairn

Non-Fungible Tokens
Geodetic
poultice
Baslm?]

Situationship
brinksmanship
confidence trickster

adept
adapt
apt
inept

ring in
rope in
dead ringer

paramour

LIDAR
RADAR
LASER
MASER

pouty

halcyon

gypsum
fools gold

jk consult borrow watch charge tell time

lorem ipsum

headwind

tranche

Turnkey

rebate

facet

IPO initial public offering

unbeknownst

paparazzi

Anderson Cooper

remand

unscathed

Typhoid Mary
	et al wikp

down the rabbithole

jk gives whole new meaning to
	hole new meaning

Remediation

recource

RC
	Lex
		Uxor
			pagan	pagan	secular mrg	valid
			pagan	pagan	CHCH mrg	valid?	Can't do it?
			RC	pagan	secular mrg	invalid?
			RC	pagan	CHCH mrg	valid?
			RC	RC	secular mrg	invalid?
			RC	RC	CHCH mrg	valid

RC Px infallib conditions
	faith morals
	Cardnls agree?
	State "ex cathedra"

RC Excomm rules

AR Annul rules

prorated

Pankration

condolences

emphatic

drudgery

talisman
gallant
derring do
intrepid
trepidation

impervious

etymol ecology

overegged

clapbacks

plausible deniability

etymol plausible

think tank

eponymous

Melodrama
Vaudeville

mn tag 90210

precarious

unlawful ach connection lex

privations

berth

denigrated

Countersign

tarpaulin

synergy

Jk:
Every once in a while a game will come around that tries to pull a fast one on us. It plops out some pretty graphics and fancy destruction physics and hopes that we don't notice what's underneath--stale ideas, broken mechanics, and the most boring gameplay you can imagine.
Thankfully, Defense Grid is not one of these games. 

Duke and Duchess of Sussex
Cambridge

pushing the envelope
swings and roundabouts

also has a grouse

nominative determinism

functoid
factoid
android
meteoroid


leeward
in the lee of
landward
downwind
upstream

monotreme
extreme

burgeoning
avail able

will windsor cheater?

roman underwater concrete
stradiavarius?]

tom brokaw
anderson cooper
dougal stephenson

Al Sharpton

the met
The Metropolitan Museum of Art

contagion

Thrive

Chixilub crater Yukatan?

Tunguska

Angst
ennui

Langley
Arlington
Quantico
CIA
FBI
G Men
Secret Service
Seals
Green Beret
Rangers

Homiletic

mommsen
von clausowitz?

homeostasis?

indult

perfidious

nemesis

exuberance

getty photos

beckoned

blue funk

braille

https://www.dictionary.com/games/quizzes/common-grammar-mistakes-quiz
Fill in the blank: I can’t figure out _____ gave me this gift.
	who
	NOT whom
Does the following sentence have correct grammar? “I looked at her, and she looked at me.”
	yes
Does the following sentence follow subject-verb agreement? “Two pieces of the pizza was missing.”
	no
Fill in the blank: Dogs can get lonely when _____ owners aren’t home.
	their
	NOT there
	NOT they’re
Fill in the blank: My coat has a hole in _____ left sleeve.
	its
	NOT it's
True or false? The independent clause following a semicolon is always capitalized.
	false
Fill in the blank: The company is looking for people _____ know how to speak Dutch.
	who
	NOT that

perforate

etymol syringe
epidermis
hypodermic
hypochondria
Hyperthermis hypothermia
hypo hyper

crinolene
crepe
taffeta
bunting
confetti

creosote
bitumen
pitchblende

statistical significance

seemingly

scabrous
etymol scandal
scapegoat
bathyscaphe
bath
sink

grotty
grotto
grotesque
pompeii herculaneum?]

Mn Tag:  8 Out of 10 Cats

Roma and Sinti people

Jimmy Carr, who is most famous for appearing in 8 Out of 10 Cats, recently released a Netflix show on Christmas Day 2021 called, His Dark Material.

Nordic-style apex roof log cabin

stippled
striated

great auk

hauberk
tabard
crenelation
accicolation?]
rampart
turret
bastion

sublimation
individuation
active imagination
Jung
	emerson?] Freud ach

“Operationalization” doesn’t just mean using something. In scientific research, it means making an abstract concept concretely measurable.

The language of the people around the table was polite council-speak - ‘mays’ and ‘considers’ and ‘options’.

proliferated

threshold
lintel
litterol
litteral
statione/ary
liminal
limen?

Binance
NFT
non Fungible token

pique
frisson

nelson piquet
brazil bs RC F1 driver ayrton senna

salacious
salubrious
lugubrious etymol

flensing

praxis
nexus

beginner's luck is partly low expectations/no exp so ne nervie in tight sitn cos ne know it tight

winsome
lissom
muxom
damsel
damask
damascene
damascus steel
toledo/spanish steel
black bronze
lacquer\ancient batteries
Anc Greek steam power
anc computers

(von?) Hildebrand

meister Eckhart
Eckhart tolle
erasmus

Sandringham

Balmoral

Spoonerism
Bowdlerism

etymol tycoon, magnate, entrepreneur

carousing
caress

Adenoid

incidental costs

canvassed

The front door had a portico, with fat, round columns

gloss
matte
Gloss nz tv show

Downton Abbey

a one room bedsit
Little Portugal, Stockwell

So forgive me if I don’t feel any sympathy for 

born with silver spoon in his mouth
cloud 9
silver lining

Calabasas
Monterrey?]
Hollywood
rodeo drive
the strip
sunset strip
Malibu
Palm beach
Palm springs
Gap year
spring break
Beverley Hills

gusset
gossamer

directors > power than shareholders (owners)
hostile take over minrity shareolders screwed
insider trading
ron brierly

comedy of errors

commedia del arte
rigoletto
Volero

A-list actor

op-ed

Sudan war crims p francis meet

grammar: Interjection

Epub version of The Secret Life of LEGO(R) Bricks by Daniel Konstanski

What is crowdfunding?

stratigraphy

tincture

The Gang of 4

disambiguate

portmanteau
portfolio
neologism

shanty-town

robust discussion

venture capitalist

pundits

pretender

Louvre

Versace

If do free wk for clients may be liable if goes wrong

WK: Speed like Charl H

playwright Noel Coward and his frequent co-conspirators, actors Alfred Lunt and Lynn Fontanne.

whip-smart

barrista

brownstone

funky
hipcat

inexorable
whistle stops

fraught with

peripatetic

nubby paper

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
"When I was very little, I'd take a stick or a rock, or ideally my finger, and drag it through the wet clumpy sand on the beach. Feeling the earth collapse and shatter and be forced from the path of my oncoming imagination. And I'd make elaborate drawings – deer on picnics at the base of the Alps, two grape vines entwining up the leg of a sleeping boy, soaring geese swarming together to spin into the rings of Saturn . . ."

"I'm wondering if it's true you can taste the love that goes into a cake," she says, "because this cake is going to taste like high blood pressure and a barely contained scream."
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
chinos
tarpaulin
sublimation

RC: Cremation
Cremation, burial, ossuary et al

Rosa Parks ne 1st ne give up seat me most useful 4 publicity?

3rd wheel

tiara

neglige

purview

Indus vs Ganges

suspension of disbelief

Commensurate

The Disneyfication of stories.

Fr Telford 1 true beaut

meccan
martian
venusian
pluto?
Warsaw
Moscow
New Yorker
York?
Plymouth?
Scouse
Manc
Geordie
	etymol

Brace for

bracingly

the grand tour

divest

curtail
curtain

Dirichlet

telenovela

Danish sci shit machine

### dark passages bible

escape velocity
max speed reached when fall - terminal velocity
speed required to oreach orbit

catskills
grampians
hamptons
Martha's Vinyard

police take a graduated response to any situation and first aim to engage, educate, encourage and then enforce."
	gradated?

alluvial
alleviate
levee
Levy

incel

derogatory

abrogate
derogate

insinuate

defame
libel
slander
calumny

concert headliner
showrunner
director/producer usa vs eng

Kororā (little blue penguin), toheroa (beach clams)
Muriwai gecko
taranui (Caspian terns), tara (white-fronted terns) and tōrea (variable oyster catchers)
white-fronted tern

argmt: diversity
biodiversity

torrential
monsoon

touted

sino tennis player missing after crit country
m ali racist comments sino

statues nz
	bad rugny w cup wn
	dog southern lake
	carrot
	dannevirke viking
	paeroa
	dolphin
	hinemoa
	mri wn train station
	cenotaph
	carillon

RC old ch architecture raises yeux to Theos

quintessence

vaunted

dauntless
intrepid

math while nav - coastguard test

precinct

prescience
presaged

open letter
Sir John Anderson

Abbey
Cloister
Belfry
Monastery
Convent
Seminary

hooligan
shennanigan
barney

Gaston
	beauty beast?
	Ratatouille?]
Piers Gaviston

C-Suite
	CEO
	CFO
	COO
	CHRO
	CTO

Plaza

using “greenwashing” terms to portray their operations as more eco-friendly than they actually are.
There’s even a new term – “carbonwashing” – where a company creates a misleading impression of its greenhouse gas emissions credentials.
Carbon trading/credits bs

E Vehicle
source of electricity
Lithium batteries
	mining
	disposal
	slavery
	shortage

albeit

jk oh vax
ne stop get/pass
Placebo
	please me

self referential

liable

pliable
pliers
pelorus

embattled
enabled

adage

adagio

cash-cow
show pony

Disinformation refers to the deliberate spreading of false information, while misinformation isn't necessarily intended to mislead.

replete

-----------------------------------
I think almost everyone is familiar with this common proverb.

"Those who ignore history are doomed to repeat it."


The original saying was by George Santayana and is actually:



"Those who cannot remember the past are condemned to repeat it."


The first issue with either saying is that it assumes history is full of mistakes. This may or may not be true. I will let you decide, but I think not.

Otherwise, these sayings could imply that the successes throughout history are doomed to be repeated too. This just does not make any sense, unless you assume that there were no successes in history. Again, I think not.

Maybe I am just reading into these sayings too literally. It probably means to just learn from the mistakes of others throughout history.

However, history is the direct result of the human nature. Unfortunately, it is not reasonable to accept that knowing history can change human nature. Therefore, history will repeat itself because human nature does not and cannot change despite education. Of course, better education could reduce or minimize some mistakes, but people in general are stupid. People are stupid enough to repeat their own mistakes, as well as the mistakes of others throughout history.

Therefore, history repeats despite education, because human nature does not change.
-----------------------------------

Borges
Carlos Fuentes
Isabel Allende

Howard Hughes
Orson Welles. Hx?

MN TAG:
20/20 vision
21 gun salute
	other #gun salutes?

Reveille
Last Post

Dan Trout
Optometrist
Opthalmologist

Glasses invented 13 c

lipid
LED

REGENCY
CHIPPENDALe FURNITURE

Tesseract

fluorescent
reprimand

met gala

pankreton

hiatus

teade wind
	current
gulf strem
	et al
doldrums
sargasso

https://www.msn.com/en-nz/entertainment/other/famous-people-who-were-diagnosed-with-schizophrenia/ss-AAXp1FY?ocid=entnewsntp&cvid=a41fd86777704249ad9a6f6f5b4a7215#image=7
Sir Isaac Newton was one of the most famous and important scientists and mathematicians in history. Credited with the discovery of gravity and the invention of calculus, Newton's genius cannot be overstated. Historians and medical professionals who have meticulously studied his letters and notes have retroactively diagnosed Newton with paranoid schizophrenia.

snuff snort
snuff avi

prurient
lascivious
lurid
frisson
lewd

syndicated

folio

erudite

etymol lagoon
bilabong
eskimo ne notice snow

Schizophrenia
phrenology

https://www.msn.com/en-nz/news/other/a-weird-fact-about-donald-duck-his-3-nephews-have-different-names-all-over-the-world/ss-AA11nJ5Q?ocid=entnewsntp&cvid=17b12300e7a148cd9baa7069dbb5a3fb
Created in 1937, Donald Duck's three nephews were called Huey (Huebert), Dewey (Dewford) and Louie (Llewellyn) in the United States. Their makers presented them as the sons of a lesser known character, Della Duck. What Disney might never have imagined is that, nearly a century later, the three brothers would have different names in each country where they were read and broadcast. A map with all their different, funny names went viral on social media.

Banshees of innisherinn - judgey anachronism

Stock film

ambrosia
nectar
aegis

golden apples
dragon's teeth

Damsel

cullottes

false dichotomy/excluded middle

cheesiness

oblivious

admixture

echelons 

epaulette
puttee
sash

the great escape. Chchill claim crime exec. D claim ok. truth?

truth table
modal logic
modality
modulated voice
modularised
nodule
module

That's a wrap
rationale
ratiocinate
reify
ideation

Fingerprint/DNA accuracy math

Imprimatur

Ex Lebris
Blurb
ISBN calc
Bar code
bank acct #
Credit card no

etymol ambiguity

follicle
cilia
emphysema

jog mn
elephant mn

Morisco

In 2015, Janszoon was a key antagonist in the historical novel Slave to Fortune by D.J. Munro.[

Persians in India
Tarun: Wali added to surname meaning?

marauder
calico
	jack

disembark
walk the plank
gang palnk
gangway
gantry
ember
gable
ringleaders
dead ringer

scottish border reivers?]

instigators

blatant

burgeoning

hinterlands

swashbuckling

pejorative

Covetous

Distraught

permeated
permanganate
pemmican

Snow shoes
	goggles

prevalence

disinterest

trope

flamboyant

peripheries

eponymous

name for thing ti step over fence

take umbrage
imbroglio

ann bonney
mary read
grace omalley
india bandit queen

fledgling

Spanish Main

Madagascar enslave albs?

underbelly
bushrangers
bushwhackers us civ war
quantrill
highwaymen
Pancho Villa
Zapatista
Tories

“Folio” is the bibliographic term for a book made from gatherings of sheets of paper, each folded once along the longer side to make two leaves—or four pages.
“quarto” formats. (For a “quarto,” each sheet of paper was folded twice, to produce eight smaller pages, and then gathered.)

prestige

garner
garish
garnish

indifferent

concommitant

innate nativity
congenital

advertising copy

Garabandal
La Sallette?]
Guadeloupe

maude gonne
gertrude stein

epub storytelling (business)

the Russophobic campaign of the 'collective West'".

inflection point
caveat

The 2013 war movie Stalingrad, directed by Fedor Bondarchuk, is gritty, exciting, romantic and chock full of cutting-edge special effects.
It's also deeply, deeply immoral, a work of pro-war propaganda that marks an inflection point in Russian cinema.

Candor/our

dumbfounded

foundling
changeling

corruscate
corduroy
corrugated
arrogate
harrogate?]

lewd

mn tag
	ROARing 20's
	87 crash
black friday
blue monday song
green day
yellow submarine
i see red
simply red
purple rain
purple prose
orange lodge

mauve
lavender
beige
achre
vermillion
crimson
scarlet
hue

silverware

stromboli
stradivarius

etymol spam

st eudes

condescension

vitriol
copped

############## trick math q Trish Bendan Mth intuit. Cost x, add $

assailant
capitulate

cholesterol bs
stomach ulcer bs

redux
[ˈriːdʌks]
ADJECTIVE
brought back; revived:
"Damian has the veneer of the angry young man redux"

Piltdown man
et al sci frauds
Lucy ape
	dub eve
dolly sheep

throuple

Alistair?] cook letter to america

rosa parks
rosenbergs
tokyo rose
lord haw haw
USA stealth bomber (CP ne aerodyn)
gary powers
vichy
benedict arnold
quisling
Hanoi Jane
300 spartans traitor

Finial

filament

filibuster

8 types of love to look out for, according to ancient Greeks
Eros (Passionate Love)
Ludus (Playful Love)	Eros is often paired with Ludus, in what is sometimes called puppy love. It's the playful affection and butterflies in your stomach at the beginning of a relationship.
Philautia (Self-Love)	having pride in your work, taking care of yourself, and maintaining a loving inner dialogue.
Mania (Obsessive Love)	An unbalanced eros and a lack of healthy philautia can turn into this mad, jealous, angry love.
Pragma (Committed Love)	a deep understanding and harmony between two people.
Storge (Family Love)	This kind of love is that of kinship, naturally flowing between parents and children.
Philia (Friendship Love)Ancient Greeks valued philia over all the other types of love, as it is a love shared between people who consider themselves equals.
Agape (Compassionate Love)This love is selfless, unconditional, and extends to every single person in the world. It's an undiscriminating love for humanity as a whole.

Greek god of fertility, Eros
Etymol infatuation

Rātana
Rua Kenana

Timelines:
The Christchurch terror attack, the Whakaari eruption, Covid-19
Chch quakw, Napier quake
Tangiwai
Pike river mine

the first boat of enslaved human beings arrived in the United States in 1619

Henrietta lacks

Sullen

the Jim Crow era
the civil rights movement.
	N Ireland?

Tuskagee airmen
	>st or OK

depravity

TS (stands 4?) Eliot?]
	Mcavity
	Mungo jerry
James Marion Sims
Eugenics in USA
neurodivergent
fumigation
prospective 
Booker T. Washington
sharecropper

https://www.msn.com/en-nz/news/other/the-tuskegee-experiment-the-most-malicious-story-in-medical-history/ss-AA16G3KB?ocid=entnewsntp&cvid=9a459619523e4b86b278d90fac4ddb00#image=7
The lies:	The 600 participants were told they were to be treated for "bad blood." Of those 600 men, 399 were infected with syphilis, while 201 constituted a healthy, uninfected control group.
	"were infected" can be misinterpreted as the docs infect them. Who cares, it bad. Truth matters.
Tuskagee expt. Men delib infected?	https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tuskegee_Syphilis_Study	NO
	The birth of penicillin
It was only 11 years after the start of the Tuskegee Syphilis Study that experts discovered the value of penicillin in treating syphilis. The questionable practices of treating the infection with mercury and other dangerous substances immediately took a backseat to safe and viable penicillin treatment in 1943. This incredible medical breakthrough quickly put an end to the Tuskegee architects' quest for a cure for syphilis, but the experiment continued for another 29 years nonetheless. Information about penicillin was carefully withheld from the Tuskegee subjects.
The 1946 STD Inoculation Study:	Another unethical study on the effects of STDs like syphilis and gonorrhea carried out by the United States government occurred in Guatemala between 1946 and 1948. There, professionals with the United States Public Health Service intentionally infected over 1,300 people, mostly soldiers, sex workers, orphans, and various institutionalized demographics, with painful and dangerous STDs like gonorrhea, chancroid, and syphilis. Many people around the world, especially in Guatemala, consider this study a crime against humanity.
Yellow fever in Georgia:	During the Cold War, when warfare experiments were given the utmost priority in the United States and abroad, the American government once again chose African-American citizens as their test subjects. In 1955, the military released no less than 300,000 yellow fever mosquitos into the mostly Black city of Savannah, Georgia, to see how useful they could be in an entomological attack against actual enemies. Although officials have claimed the mosquitos were uninfected, dozens of Savannah residents fell dangerously sick during the test.
Ionia State Hospital:	Michigan's Ionia State Hospital has gone down in history as one of the darkest places in the United States. Even for 20th-century asylums, Ionia State Hospital was a truly terrifying place, especially for the African Americans who made up most of its population. During the relatively recent 1960s, African Americans admitted to the psychiatric hospital with strong views regarding the civil rights movement were erroneously diagnosed with schizophrenia. This would often turn a short visit of an otherwise healthy individual into an extended, sometimes years-long stay in the asylum, essentially equating to false imprisonment.

Stanford prison expt
destitute
institute
restitution
spinal taps
Morals of data from Mengele expts
efficacy
efficiency
unwitting
Proponents

jk. y really selling it
psychosis

congenital

NAACP
SPLC

antitrust

1up: "Get over it", "tsk'oh!", "So what/can't complain, grmns bad" (stds of good lower, stds of bad lower - law matters/plentty solds ne did it. % crims/rot apples

gamification

delve
spelunk

SIEM
Splunk

Oh in tesla crash y at fault

lascivious
lecherous
lewd

summit meting
symposium

unreservedly

1911 Italo-Turkish War
	1st aerial bombing

grandiose

argmt
	ww2 bomb jap immoral
		if y were there...
			then i'd probly approve sth immoral too

nuance
greatest gen tom brokaw

celtics player asked if vist royals says Jes/Mar/Jos

firestorm
waterspout

1up/argmt:
	lynagh hole/breach overeed by inner wall O'Neils vs Cromwell

1up
	choose who help
		short term:	bully given in 2 cos other person accepts if y ne help em me bully makes y life painful till y do
		long term:	bully enabled. rises, promotes more like them
	bully expert at maip rules. if y complain, watches y n waits 4 y slip then does same. ppl ne pick on cos fear this, so while focused on y, no1 else hits at em


heyday

petula clark
	achv?

eng public school vs usa

tiaras

scamper

decolletage?]

Tatler magazine

how many countries allow cyclists on sidewalk?

Mondial
df professional

commonality

df sxuality

dovetailing

SC hormones imply ach

redoubt
national redoubt

bastion
bailey

old bailey

ways to crack authenticator MFA on phone
	clone sim/phone?

etymol celibate

suffuse
infuse
defuse

obfuscate etymol

integument?

etymol supernova

Merck pubic wig

reader – of Atwood, Drabble, Weldon, Lessing, Plath; and Greer, de Beauvoir, Friedan, Millett, Wollstonecraft.
Grammar-schooled in Pope, Tennyson, Masefield and de la Mare, of women poets ancient and modern, I heard nothing. Arriving in New Zealand in the mid-60s, names like Curnow, Fairburn, Glover, Mason and Baxter became familiar, but none belonging to women.
Denis Glover
Lauris Edmond
C.K. Stead
Arthur Sewell, Clarence Beeby, Bill Oliver, Hubert Witheford and Hone Tuwhare
Sutton spy scandal NZ, tramping lost tararuas?

retrogrades

disparagement

the second wave of feminism

galling

banal

zero-sum game

dichotomy

when the chips are down

predilection

anthology

exuberant

surplus

miasma

intermittent

Connie - origin, meaning, popularity, and related nameshttps://mom.com › baby-names › girl › Connie
Originally a pet form of Constance (constancy), Connie is now commonly bestowed as an independent given name.

M Hill wlock?

incentivise
Enron
Bush Harkon energy
antithetical

kicked the bucket
bucket list

push notifications

back burner
afterburner

reboot

alternatives like Mastodon
youtube	vimeo, rumble
parler (parlour?)

https://www.theverge.com/

https://www.developer-tech.com/

metaverse/meta/facebook
myspace
stackify

backsliding

pointman
vanguard
van (vehicle)

dossier
portfolio

grift

jaded

expressionistic style of trad film noir

M Caine thesp yeux exas

decadent

vindicate

sweltering 

travel raise iq

D argmt Shirley Bassey T Jones

caper

gigolo

consignment

S connery film murders cruel father film tries make sympathy 4 D

Mn Tag: T Bone, Mr T

New coke/old coke. Year of

CRT Crit Race Theory

Primetime

Boaz

Morce Majeure

sovereign
pathos
bathos
bathyscaphe

impeccable

obsolete 

argmt: Ukraine took part in illegan invasion of Iraq
argmt: >iq >moral. BS

mantra
mandala
koan

internecine

UKRAINE:	Colonel douglas macgregor

Argmt: Beacon on hill: Xt ne USA

Blackrock

Dbl std
hypos

cheerily

furlough
furlong

idiomatically
phrasal verb

Puzzle
	U2 cross bridge
	can only see hats on ppl in front

BB gun

Mn Tag
	Black September
	Movember
	Do y remember days of sptember song
		elephant
	Dry july
	May pole, May Day, Mayday emergency call
	January Jones, Janus
	February mud month, cabbage, purification Februa
	March hare war god marching
	July Caesar
	June Junoesque
	Augustus gust
	April open
	September seven sept clan
	Octover 8 octopus
	November Novel
	December Decibel
sputum

penultimate

tresses
bangs

miscellaneous

nuance

engrossed

clapback

panacea?]

wallah

Swagger

fig leaf

occupy wall st
me too movement
hashtag

apropos

Cirrus
cirrhosis?]

parri·cide: the killing of a parent or other near relative.

compunction

errata

jk
pnile cranial congruence

verisimilitude
the appearance of being true or real.
"the detail gives the novel some verisimilitude"

Coitus
American pronunciation
koy·tuhs
British pronunciation
kow·uh·tuhs

yearling
duckling
sibling

detritus
detrius?
flotsam jetsam
lissom
buxom
damsel
lithe
sleek

firebrand

furor
garner
garnish
bouquet garni

cache
cachet
namesake
forsaken
forsooth
soothsaying

---------------------------------
Marinetti Sauce
Adapted from Toscana Mia

Ingredients
2 peeled potatoes
One thick slice of ham, diced
One onion, minced
One carrot, minced
One stick of celery, minced
Butter to taste
A handful of parsley leaves, chopped
One 10 oz can of tomato puree
A spoonful of capers
2 oz chopped anchovies or anchovy paste
3 fresh artichoke hearts, quartered and thinly sliced
Olive oil, to taste
One 500 g (17.6 oz) box of dried spaghetti alla chitarra (or other dried pasta)
1/2 cup shelled green pistachios, thinly sliced
Parmesan cheese
Instructions
Prepare the potato water. Boil the potatoes in a pot of salted water until soft. Remove them from the pot and reserve the water, which will be used to thicken the sauce. The potatoes can be used for a different recipe.
Set a separate pot of salted water to boil for the pasta.
Fry the ham in butter, then add onion, carrot, and celery until softened.
Add parsley, a spoonful of tomato sauce, and a few spoonfuls of the potato water to the pan. Let the sauce reduce.
Pour the sauce into a blender and add the anchovies and capers. Blend until thick and smooth. Return the sauce to the pan, adding more potato water if too dry.
In a separate pan, saute the artichokes in butter and olive oil until crispy.
Meanwhile, boil the pasta in the pot of salted water until al dente. Once the pasta is done, drain it and add it to the sauce, tossing the pasta with parmesan and extra butter. Season to taste with salt and pepper.
Transfer the pasta to a serving plate and top with any remaining sauce. Garnish with the fried artichokes and sliced pistachios.
---------------------------------

foray

hue vs shade

All wheel drive
4 wheel drive
front wheel drive
rear wheel drive
EVO
Lancer


succinct

Dumbarton Oaks?

pas·chal
[ˈpask(ə)l, ˈpɑːsk(ə)l]
ADJECTIVE
FORMAL
1. relating to Easter.
2. relating to the Jewish Passover.

Superannuated, “antiquated or obsolete,” comes from Medieval Latin superannātus, “over a year old.” Superannātus is based on Latin super, “above, beyond, over,” and annus, “year.” Super is a distant relative of English over, German über, and Ancient Greek hypér; compare the Words of the Day hypermnesia and supercilious. Annus is the source of anniversary and annual, and its stem enn- can be found in millennium and the Word of the Day perennial. Superannuated was first recorded in English circa 1530.
https://www.dictionary.com/e/word-of-the-day/hypermnesia-2020-03-22/
https://www.dictionary.com/e/word-of-the-day/supercilious-2020-10-23/

alluvion
[ uh-loo-vee-uhn ] SHOW IPA  
noun
a gradual increase of land on a shore or a river bank by the action of water, whether from natural or artificial causes.

[ hal-see-uhn ]  
HALCYON IS ANOTHER WORD FOR PEACEFUL
gloaming
gloaming is a synonym of twilight

crimped

gonzo

misogyny

sampledelia
retro fashions

setlists

disown

Lollapalooza
Kalamazoo

brownie points

pernicious
lily the pink
unicorn
cyberloafing
loafers

furore

JK: sort it out asynchronously

clowncore

glamping

kitsch
camp

"white privilege"

umbrage

albeit

mitigation

exude

petulant
churlish

well-heeled

exigent
indigent
indigenous
	Nat geo vs native
	which make me the racist
spate
terraced housers
	victorian
	projects

rebuff
manspread
mansplaining

gingerly

stint

soliciter
barrister
QC
advocate
attorney

Nire good friday agreement 1998

garlanded

stolid

stadia/ums:
landsdowne road
croag park
twickenham
lords
wembly

prisons:
san quentin
singsing
vs borstal, penitentiary...

scoff
scofflaw

virulent

vicar
vicarious

reprehensible
contrite
shrive

shrove tuesday

picket
palisade
paling

math fencepost problem
error of category

disquiet

NAACP
SPLC

prophylaxis

Hard water
hard rain
heavy rain
acid rain
antiknock
antifreeze
High octane
leaded petrol
	vintage car crank kill inventor's friend
ozone hike
Rachel Carson silent spring

intermittent

proviso

JK: 1L: all is 4given

integument

Argmt:
Yes, and ne yes, but
wn should avoid sitn X and m who ach are bad

regency england
interregnum
elegabalus

Charlie Sheen defended him, telling TMZ that Jones's statement was a symptom of the show's 'toxic environment.' "I dare anyone to spend 10 years in the laugh track that is Chuck Lorre’s hive of oppression and not suffer some form of an emotional tsunami," he said. Jones did not return for the 2014 season.

cameo
oreo

oriole

spat

ancient life expectancy skewed by infant mortality

correlation causation
bias cog: patterns in data that ne exist

percent vs percentage

What % of africa is black?

diaspora

mulatto
quadroon

countenance

Jose Antonio Vargas, the Pulitzer-winning journalist
time square NY

entail

predicated upon

ostracism
	celt?

argmt
	migratn
		can change. Me ne in 1 generatn
		and usually acomp by viol

1up
	convenient
		ctr
	SC
		trying to be the vir who...

prosaic

sliver

salver
salve
basalm
salivate
slobber

mulch
silege

begging the Q

why is sky lue? Sea green?

preponderance

red herrings

the hard costs you can save

invoice

epigenetics

warrior glory soldier duty

plato gold silve bronze ppl, philos kings commie
	argmt vs demos

payment in kind
kind of
kindness
kinder
kindling

tinder
ember
kindling
charcoal
coke

Livy

filler words/decorators
	kind of
	fa'a
	wittgenstein
		ladder
	pron
		wittgenstein
		vs
		wittgenstien

redundancy
	a fellow colleague of mine
	at this point in time

1up: SC: ne hates redundancy
	hi tolerance 4

spell
	principal is pal
	principle principly

panoply

CapitAl ABC
Capitol toll gate hill
Capital punishment?

caput

Quote: IT wn: better to do and apologise than ask n wait

consummate

to tide ppl over

backhanded comment
reverse psychology

skynet

elon musk satellite internet?

df common sense

Ephrata

cloister
belfry

feral
fecund
fallow

tiara

neglige
decollettage?]

small/short url

myspace

decree

increment
inclement

theotokos

Noah flood sci says water within earth
Nephilim fossils
Sci: DNA only mutates at edges
The fall: entropy
Panspermia Fred hoyle
Newton Bk Daniel alchemy
Leonardo doomsday book

Fred hollows

Domesday bk Will conq

But wait, there’s more…
mindset

Godhead

bridgehead
beachead?]

wampum
pemmican

moniker?]

moiety
reify
ideation

DVD vs tape philips
apple stole mouse etc xerox
B gates and IBM
philips screwdriver

Argmt: M: Kings evil

Peter Ustinov?]
Orson Welles
	WOTW exa sly Covid panic
		ppl get used to threat (war, volcano) so must keep switching threat
Bagaudae Rome

Agitprop

emanuensis?]
factotum

protégé

debutante

bleachers

mn tag 50 cent

false positive

mn tag
7 (deadly sins) k spacey brad pitt
area 51
planet 51 anim
close encounters 3rd kind
2001 space odyssey
space 1999
blake 7
Dr who #'s
90210

samizdat

MUSIC PITCH
Beverly hills cop theme Composed by Harold Faltermeyer
	herbie hancock?
		“Rockit” by Herbie Hancock ... Theme song for the movie(s) Beverly Hills Cop with Eddie Murphy
	https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Beverly_Hills_Cop_(soundtrack)
close encounters 3rd kind - Mn the tune used comms aliens

2 toned

nadir

zigzag

plight

run afoul of

undercard bout

integument

parametrization or parameterization or parametrisation or parameterisation
eteymol parameter

abatement

abuttment?]
escarpement
defile

salvo
fusillade
volley

half volley

etymol entrepreneur

when both sides use chatgpt 4 their comms get recursion issue?
	email infinite bounce?

rudimentary

colloquially

humdrum

trundling

to wit
saith

alderman
lord mayor
town cryer

torrid
turgid
turbid
torts
	retort

hybrids
Project Chimera
salk institutes
man ape/monkey
No adult version of the embryo
In fact, for ethical reasons, the embryo created from a monkey-human mix will be destroyed when it reaches 14 weeks. This is the moment when, according to scientists, nerve connections and other complex elements of a living being are created.
The British novelist H.G. Wells (1866-1946) anticipated this moral debate about the ethical limits of science in 'The Island of Doctor Moreau', a novel in which he imagined experiments that succeeded in mixing animal species. The resulting hybrids were then enslaved by a mad scientist. The novel has had several film adaptations.

apotheosis

aberrant

in vitro fertilisation

etymol derogatory
abrogate
interogate?]

culmination

eclectic

sports trainspotters

tentative

coalesce

J.M. Synge's travels in fin-de-siècle Europe

Dianetics L Ron Hubbard

futile

Rumble
Parler

Turing test
	apple
	snow white
		disney
		hitler

inane

showcase the limits of AI's context awareness, also known as common sense

plagiarism

verbatim

Information is not knowledge

zeitgeist

flounder

calumny

netherworld

Southern Poverty Law Centre

exacting

bogus

scupper
scarper
scapa flow
scara brae
newgrange

marriage broker
keening
furies
norns
morrigan
nemesis

hiatus

jk:
2 kinds of ppl in world
	those who can extrapolate from data...

swag

swag bag
swagger

earmark

gamut

dad joke

alleviate

tumultuous

AI bias gives PC answer to anything about non alb culture

a broad Christian fundamentalist belief system, known as premillennialism".
mimetics

mythomaniacs
the bard. Avon, Strathclyde

maelstrom

Donald Trump's Mar-a-Lago raid in 2022

genocide df
demise

rescinded
cinder
kindling
embers

etymol kremlin

wassail

Ahley Bllomfield
Tony Fauci

paucity

In early 2022, Tucker Carlson released the docuseries 'The End of Men.'

succinct

not ‘stating facts’ but ‘engaging in exaggeration’ to frame a political debate

jk consultant borrow watch charge tell time

ars technica

purvey
convey
inveigle

df/etymol acumen

aficionado?]

disinformation
mythinformation
misinformation

YTB:
Das
Sculpey
Fimo
polymer clay

tesla who liable if oh asleep back seat and crash
	y r

benign

elevator pitch

Errata
Blurb
Ex Libris

a negative headwind

impute
deputy
reputation

impugn

peroration

spinnaker

intrepid

swoon

corset
truss

newark

triage

Try "The Skeptics Guide to the Future" by Dr. Steven Novella. It has, I think, a more believable scenario for where AI will go.

beltway

reprised

brackets, braces, parentheses

exacerbate

Poilvert

astounded

epiphany

quandaries

Contrite
trite
shrive

titular
namely

pusillanimous?]

freud on hx

1up. looks like y caught me out. feel small. ne that rub face in. y ne the effem btch type
unless I was able to say
relax. ne rub face

1up. sc. did y say x cos earlier y saiz z... n y thot bo1 notice. no1 says. n y thot that passes 4 subtlety

sutler

ossuary

indict

chagrin

boffin

wk psych
mgr: bully at it again. want it go away
	choice side w bully or oth. Side w b less pain so side w b.
	goes quiet. great. oth leaves
	end result as this repeats is good ppl leave and assholes stay. get a cultural shift

inculturation

inervate?
enervate?]

Jk PM r we there yet?

wk
	sly game love one aspect me fixated n need all aspects, sly ne fixate linear, need juggle
		je enuf planning, je enuf automation

Clothilde

swelter

rigmarole
helter skelter
hurdy gurdy
dead ringer
carillon

JRUSK
	Stew: a dish of meat and vegetables cooked slowly in liquid in a closed dish or pan.
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Curry
	A curry is a dish with a sauce seasoned with spices, mainly associated with South Asian cuisine. In southern India, leaves from the curry tree may be included. There are many varieties of curry.
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Stew
	A stew is a combination of solid food ingredients that have been cooked in liquid and served in the resultant gravy. A stew needs to have raw ingredients added to the gravy. Ingredients in a stew can include any combination of vegetables and may include meat, especially tougher meats suitable for slow-cooking, such as beef, pork, lamb, poultry, sausages, and seafood. 
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Simmering
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Boiling
https://www.critic.co.nz/culture/article/7464/where-does-stew-end-and-curry-begin-
	The layman believes that “curry” refers to simply any Indian or Asian dish of this nature, but the term actually describes a specific blend of spices adapted by Indian immigrants to Britain from their traditional spice mixtures.
https://medium.com/@asharma327/what-is-the-difference-between-a-stew-and-a-curry-449b199b8d47
https://www.bonappetit.com/story/what-is-curry
https://www.rifas.co.uk/difference-between-stews-curries/#:~:text=Curries%20are%20typically%20yellow%20in,are%20generally%20thick%20in%20consistency.

Le Viandier, one of France’s earliest recipe books.

semblance

versatility

pungent

"categorically" confirming

Supt superintendent

scathing

Perfection is an extremely high bar, but self-improvement should not be shunned if perfection cannot be achieved.

golden ratio

RECIPE: French Boeuf Bourguignon

LANG: Garam Masala directly translates to Hot Spices

jk
	y ne selling it
	y really selling it
	keep...

ne employ ppl w 2 hi iq
iq correlate imagn?, creatv?, dramatic?, music, art, sport, business, eq?

correlate/causate
data patterns that ne match reality

inverted snob

covid
2 choices: admit duped or maintain the fiction y served greater good

dabbled

ostensibly

conjecture
anomalies

Metropolitan

guise

anecdotal

satin
cladding
bell-bottom
teeny-bopper

glam-rock

larrikin
archetype

wry
tongue in cheek

culminate

culvert

after the dust had settled, it was no surprise.

pandemonium

number 67 Overhill Road, in East Dulwich, South London. This is where Bon died

demise

femesne

RUBBERNECKING
MORBIT
OGLING

brixton riots

dour
	doers

dossier
brief
portmanteau

compound

hawthorns

brambles
rustle
bustle

clog
sabot

resignation

Ronald Belford Scott was born on July 9, 1946, in Kirriemuir, Scotland. He emigrated with his family to Australia in 1952. He left school at age 15, and held a variety of part-time jobs before deciding to ply his trade in music; as a drummer-cum-vocalist, he enjoyed limited success before a motorcycle accident cut short his ambitions.

stomping ground

tumbleweed
hamker
tempered
braggadocio

gnashing

speakeasy

raucous

maladjusted

tongue-in-cheek

prodigious

reiterate
abstain

bickering

dickering

Yardbirds

parodied
alluded

spoof vs lampoon vs parody vs farce

hemingway paris 45 us filmmaker R? brdllo

bandrillo

manifest destiny

manifest destiny

cyclone

BIPOC Black, Indigenous, and People of Color

tactless

bloomberg

piltdown & other sci frauds
dolly the sheep
lcy
blk eve

'Heidi' is one of the best-selling works of children's fiction. The novel, published in 1880, was written by Swiss author Johanna Spyri. The story involves a young orphan who is sent to the Alps to live with her grandfather.

cosmopolitan

BCE

D sly chris hitchens

georgia guidestones

terra cotta
bas relief

pueblo

color
shade hue

hue and cry
law of sanctuary
sumptuary

gibbet

infighting
fixture
admixture


6 mile square vs 6 square miles

how many ppl to soldier ratio medieval/ancient?
tilled land to popn ratio?
how know anc egypt popn
which countries kept censuses in past
	how many roman censuses?

conch shell

do archaeologists have right to excavate burials?

Spiro Mounds ruled over 2/3 usa?

Thats a lot of docn and analysis
	I figured I would need to measure the string

1up
	n y ne thot of doing x
	why ne y
		ctr
			given the circumstances, why should.
				what circum
					what was just outlined. It's in the report y read.
						summarize
							there's a summary on page 1... para 1

Mancala african game.
	Get ChatGPT to play

exfiltrate

bulkhead
glossary

just do x
	y can't see how thats a problem?
		no
			have y ever been a dev?
				y
					how long ago

bowery
shrubbery

estranged stranger

heartland

tino rangatiratanga

debase

Lang: Samoan:  a’oga amata (language preschools)

pseudointellectual

brusque

Indifference
diffident
uninterest
disinterest
equivocate

digraph

disambiguate

Word for lying starting with D?
 dissimulator · dissembler
derelict
flagrante delicto
prevaricate
perjurer
mendacious

allocate

forswear

junta
putsch

pejorative
perpetuate
stigma

flotilla
referendum

datajournalism

Paparazzi

exuded

stratosphere

tabloid

iceberg 90% underwater

https://www.google.com/search?q=geldof+hutchence&rlz=1C1GCEJ_enNZ1015NZ1016&oq=Geldof+hutchence&aqs=chrome.0.0i355i512j46i512j0i512j0i22i30i625l2j0i22i30j0i22i30i625l2j0i22i30l2.2262j0j7&sourceid=chrome&ie=UTF-8
https://www.kentonline.co.uk/kent/news/the-heartbreaking-tale-of-bob-geldof-and-paula-yates-220187/
https://www.mtv.com/news/uxwp2p/bob-geldof-talks-about-final-hutchence-phone-call
https://www.zergnet.com/o/7672288/1/0/7443506/6/

########## https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bob_Geldof
	Davington church
	Mauritius Leaks
		https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mauritius_Leaks
		After being criticised earlier in the decade for his stance on aid to African countries,[76] in July 2019, according to a report on its "Mauritius Leaks" project by the International Consortium of Investigative Journalists (ICIJ), Bob Geldof was mentioned as allegedly involved in tax avoidance by corporations and individuals doing business in Africa and other continents. His private equity fund 8 Miles (named after the shortest distance between Europe and Africa: the eight miles width of the Strait of Gibraltar), which aimed to generate a 20 per cent return by exclusively buying stakes in African startup businesses, had set up subsidiaries in the tax haven of Mauritius, "an offshore jurisdiction with a wide network of double taxation treaties in interesting markets". Geldof declined to comment on the leaks.
		https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Strait_of_Gibraltar
		Mn Tag eminem 8 mile
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/International_Consortium_of_Investigative_Journalists

irreconcilable differences
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Scientologist
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Inquests_in_England_and_Wales
Christian Science
Opioid vs crack. Dave Chapelle bs sly how old is 15
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Class_A_drug
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ian_Dury
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_premature_obituaries
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Debt_relief
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Amnesty_International
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/West_End_theatre
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Theatre_Royal,_Drury_Lane
broadway
champs elysees
pensylvania ave
baker st
fleet st
carnaby st
brandenberg gate
gorky park
sunset strip
the strip
route 66
apain way
trans siberian railway

funicular etymol

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Secret_Policeman%27s_Other_Ball
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Oxfam
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Derg

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gleneagles_Hotel
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/G8	
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/G8_Gleneagles

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Political_activist
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Jeffrey_Sachs
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Kofi_Annan
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gordon_Brown
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/New_Internationalist
The Spectator
	podcast
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/I_Don%27t_Like_Mondays
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Prostitute
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sex_workers
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Suicide_bomber
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Knight_Commander_of_the_Order_of_the_British_Empire
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Aung_San_Suu_Kyi
	Nobel Prize
	https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Rohingya_persecution_in_Myanmar_(2016%E2%80%93present)
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Native_speaker
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Population_growth
# https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Water_table
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ghanaian_chieftaincy
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/New_Statesman

reneged

Elegantly Wasted

Mn tag X factor
	Green berets
	50 CENT
	Blink 182
	U2
	UB40
	Love potion no 9
	Vietnam 19
	At 17
	16 candles, sweet 16
	10 guitars
	yellow submarine, Mello Yellow
	green berets, Ceelo?] Green?, Green Day, Green Door Shakin Stevens
	little red corvette, I see red, Bowie Red dress
	Blue Monday
	Purple rain
	Black rolling stones, Bowie Blackstar
	Bad Leroy Brown
	Pink (singer)
	Barry White, White Snake

	Famous 5
	Secret 7
	Birmingham 6

Brownstone
Blue mountains

? on blue fire

epitome

plaudit

limelight

hectic
arduous

cold shoulder

testament
prowess

self disparaging
self denigrating
self effacing

stereotypes



For 50 Cent, cash flow seemed to be endless at one point. In 2015, the New York Post reported he'd sold almost 30 million albums, made a reported $60 million to $100 million on his investment in Vitamin Water, had endorsement deals with companies including Reebok and Right Guard, plus owned a successful record label and clothing company. The Washington Post estimated his net worth at half a billion dollars in 2010.
When 50 Cent filed for bankruptcy in 2015, he was making $185,000 a month, but $72,000 went to his 18-bedroom house and almost everything else went to "other expenses." While he admitted he had recently bought a Rolls-Royce, he said most of the cars, jewelry, and jets he showed off on social media were actually borrowed or rented.
But his big problems came from the illegal stuff he did. Due to a feud he had with Rick Ross, he decided to shame the mother of Ross' child. 50 Cent purchased a sex tape of the woman, added a voiceover making fun of her, and put it online without her knowledge or consent. Super not okay. A judge ordered him to pay $7 million in damages. He was also found guilty of copying his G-Unit headphone design from another company, and a judge made him pay $17 million for that transgression. 50 Cent immediately filed for bankruptcy, saying these judgments plus other debts exceeded his mere $25 million net worth.
Read More: https://www.grunge.com/151067/rappers-who-lost-all-their-money/

war room

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Moons_of_Jupiter
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Timeline_of_discovery_of_Solar_System_planets_and_their_moons
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Orbital_resonance
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_Solar_System_objects_by_size
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Orbital_inclination
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Orbital_eccentricity
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Moonlets
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Retrograde_motion
########## https://hsm.ox.ac.uk/animate-it-0
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Orrery

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Jupiter_(mythology)
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pantheon_(religion)
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lists_of_deities
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_pantheons
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tuatha_D%C3%A9_Danann
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/T%C3%BAath
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Confederations
List of commonwealths
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tudor_conquest_of_Ireland
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Surrender_and_regrant
List of pales

mass vs weight

2016 monument/recog to 500 RIC mort war indep
	sly
		USA Eng died 1776
		SA state sold/cop die vs ANC

rambunctious

exuberance

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Royal_warrant_(document)

General Belgrano D wrong

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/SAS:_Rogue_Heroes
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lewes_bomb
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Paddy_Mayne
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bangor,_County_Down
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Solicitor
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Richard_Dimbleby
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tim_Collins_(British_Army_officer)
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Royal_Irish_Regiment_(1992)
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_SAS_operations
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Randolph_Churchill

etymol inhibit

frugal

lanyard

behest

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Torpedo

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/First_Battle_of_El_Alamein

Natlib. Eng Officer. Modern war delC hot->cool courage

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Umayyad_Caliphate
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ibn_al-Ash%27ath
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Second_Fitna
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Zabulistan
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Battle_of_Dayr_al-Jamajim

Maxim Gorky?

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Revue

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bubbling_Brown_Sugar

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/54_(film)
mn tag places with numbers in name
	buildings
	streets (66, 42)
	novels
	songs
	poems
	films
	tv series
	music (beethoven's 9th, 5th)

unicef
unesco
IMF
World Bank

Quiz # on UN security council

wk. ctr. Ppl undermine y. esp if boss

1up
	smile
		shit's hitting fan. want keep teeth white

mediev smile ne show teeth?

happenstance
haphazars

serendib ceylon
	walpole princes

embrace ambiguity

embrasure

ambrosia
nectar
dew
dewlap
dewflap
mildew

Soldier From Ground up:
Caesar
Alexander
Hannibal
Napoleon

WW1 UK troops
Lions led by asses/donkeys. Etymol

forgo

etymol forensic

parody vs satire
	lampoon
	spoof

Mount Smart Stadium

Cyclone Gabrielle

headlands

the values and practices of 19th century capitalism - individualism and speculative gain.

mercantilism
manifest destiny
lewis clark
turnstile
stile
eye sty?]
mandate heaven
middle kingdom
land of 5 rivers
cote dazure azores riviera(s)

amenities

ammonite
mennonite

coptic

vicissitudes

st eudes

faltering
sprawl

free markets
urbanism
free trade agreement
EU common market

wax
wane
warp
woof
heft
weft?
aureole
gibbous
nimbous?]

1up a real vie pron corrector

capital gains

record floods cos > concrete etymol

1up
	watch what say
	when y actions shout it louder than any wds

	nice guy. neeth veneer complete cnt

	if asked suck tae cow muli grateful straw?

	need sit iq test. score good next stage then psych (sociopath) test. fail y in

ἔτυμον (étumon), meaning true sense

exasperation

pseudoscience

Emerson freud ach jung

black eve
goat with spider genes
cabages with antifreeze from polar animals
deep sea fish genes

sicle cell anaemia malaria

tsetse fly IQ

ethn iq
cant discuss that
	yes can
		ne red rag, follow my logic
			thas what we go uni 4, right, ne to learn a social jargon to sep us from plebs (rich keep good kobs 4 kids) in whitecollar wkplace & follow intellectual recipes
	called freedm spch

stands to reason

queen's evidence

putative

friends, romans, countrymen

jk mgr only wk. if twas war be fragging em

International Fact-checking Network’s code of principles.

fact checkers. pressure not to back down when err, 4 greater good: ppl will not believe when we got it right

infodemic

investigative journalism

slush fund

a wag

bodge job

libertarian

tithes
indulgences

the Francis bacon brinery defence

redact
recuse
redouble
doubloon
pantaloon
redoubt
rort

denigrate

stress interview
behavioural interview

argmt: arrog mod sci thot solve evth me causes worse probs than solves. mediev accept entropic fall. 

arrogate
harrowgate

salve et coagula

peroration

living proof

exception proves/tests the rule
90% proof oh
proving dough?
provenance
profess
profession

subornation

castigate

gloat

hapless
happenstance

miscreant

profane
vicissitudes
vulgar
idiom
idiosyncracy
syncretism
fabianism

underling

complines
vespers

complainant

Indian hx caste

inequity vs inequality

abiding

Klüver-Bucy syndrome
hyperorality [the desire to put inappropriate objects in your mouth]
catatonic
encephalitis lethargica
stupor
stupefaction
rabies is a good example of a common disease that causes zombie-like behavior, saying, "If you look at rabies, it completely changes the way a dog behaves. It's transmitted by bites, it leads to madness, convulsions, and so it's not really that far-fetched."
a neurotoxin found in pufferfish and other animals "created the appearance of death," but the effect was only temporary. Pictured: Two Haitian "zombies." Clairvius Narcisse and Francina aka Ti Femme both were declared dead and buried but then returned home again several year later, alive and well.
Harvard Health Publishing stated that there is one agent that could cause something close to zombieism: prions. The article states, "Prions are oddly shaped proteins that cause abnormal folding of proteins in the brain. Essentially, they turn the brain's centers of higher thought into spongy mush."
Prions cause the disease known as kuru, which became famous when a cannibalistic tribe known as the Fore People in New Guinea became infected with it. The members of the tribe contracted the disease because they were eating human brains.
Mad cow disease
Bird flu
Swine flu

pheromones

etymol terrific
	Alleluja?]

Mallorca
Tenerife

Catton slated Ardern for

NZ: culture of anti-intellectualism

2/3/2023 finalyy admit covid wuhan lab origin. Occam. Media still claims consp theory. Journaliarism.

tentative

unsolicited

interim

scrips

tough love

mononymously

“There is a process in place. There is going to be failures,” Lonsinger said. “It’s about how we create a platform to take on all of those challenges.”
To keep her concentration level high, Wilson found ways to stay calm and work on the next event without dwelling on or riding the high of the previous one.
“I tried to keep myself in what I was doing in the moment and not thinking about the future,” Wilson said. “I was just letting everything progress.”

QCode
Barcode
Recaptcha

a coat of primer

backwoods 
backwater
upstate

littoral
hinterland

sub liminal

deferment

##### circular reporting

every reader has a bias every writer has a bias etymol

rife

strafe

disparate
disparity

ceteris paribus
mutatis mutandis

jk: (Teams) (silence) Speaker Is anyone there? (Response) I think that's the sound of the pin dropping

wk: Good question

Master data vs reference data vs data catalog

Data steward

welch on a bet?
Dpuble dutch

The trial has been adjourned

sepsis

abscess
ulcer
boil
canker

vehement

scarpered

palpable
curfew

coherent

caucus

the Three Waters mess

Speaking to Paula Bennett on her NZ Herald podcast, Ask Me Anything, Soper said that one issue journalists face when grilling politicians these days is that many politicians have become focused on what he sees as scripted answers that never answer what was asked of them.
“The problem with politicians is you usually know the answer yourself and you know what they should be saying, but they don’t say anything, and that’s the problem. Politicians I’ve found over the years are verbose to the extent that they talk themselves around a corner, and sometimes a door opens and they go in, and it’s too late to rescue themselves.”
With Ardern, Soper said that she was too pre-rehearsed at times and did not respond well to being interrupted. He compares the polarising response to her in the community to former Labour Prime Minister David Lange, who enjoyed significant popularity in his first term before it all fell apart in his second.
And while he thinks that she has a similar need to be loved as Sir John Key did, Key flourished more by being self-deprecating.
“He made a dick of himself on so many occasions, falling off catwalks and breaking legs at Chinese festivals, doing derpies at universities. People love that. I remember going on the first trip that John Key did, and we were in the islands, and he did the hula, and he said to me on the plane on the way back, ‘Oh, I think I might have made a bit of a dick of myself there’.
“And I said, ‘No, people love seeing that sort of crap’. And they do, as long as then he’s prime ministerial when that’s required.”

ransacked
barricade
motorcade
cavalcade

bolster

lib theol

coster monger
whmonger

moral panic

we saw that for a bespoke period of time

the people at the coal face

do a whistle stop tour

disaster porn

towing the party line

pulpit

Ardern bought media 2022
	presstitute pravda

mixed messages

mixed metaphor
analogy limit

Anonymous hackers

I give this 3 minutes until its removed for violating the sub rules on editoralisation

winter of discontent

statute

kept at bay

when win give avenue of escape or lion the mouse

boy racer donuts doughnuts

austerity

crit sth. E.g. bitcomet nzfootball
	absurdly defensive
		got skin in the game?

weal woe wealth commonwealth
a welt

https://www.lifesitenews.com/news/cdl-pell-called-synod-on-synodality-a-toxic-nightmare-just-before-he-died/?utm_source=daily-catholic-2023-01-12&utm_medium=email
	Cardinal Pell was imprisoned because he knew all players in the financial scandal. These same players whipped up a case against the cardinal through the anti-Catholic Australian press, and a corrupt criminal Justice system. Pope Francis knew this and let Pell rot a year in jail.
https://www.lifesitenews.com/news/abby-johnson-describes-abortion-pill-horrors-at-cpac-fully-formed-babies-are-floating-in-the-toilet/?utm_source=popular
https://www.lifesitenews.com/news/priest-decries-abortion-transgender-mutilations-pornography-drag-shows-as-demonic-insanity/?utm_source=popular
https://www.lifesitenews.com/news/woke-chicago-mayor-lori-lightfoot-loses-re-election-in-landslide/?utm_source=popular
https://www.lifesitenews.com/news/pope-francis-ramps-up-attacks-on-the-latin-mass-while-pro-lgbt-clergy-continue-to-defy-church-teaching/?utm_source=popular
https://www.lifesitenews.com/blogs/gender-confused-canadian-mans-quest-to-be-euthanized-endangers-thousands-of-mentally-ill-people/?utm_source=popular
https://www.lifesitenews.com/news/vaticans-new-synodal-document-calls-for-female-diaconate-and-radical-inclusion/
https://www.lifesitenews.com/opinion/swiss-bishop-condemns-the-synod-on-synodality-as-a-marketing-campaign-for-heresy/
https://www.lifesitenews.com/blogs/dutch-bishop-leaves-vile-synod-on-synodality-the-holy-spirit-has-absolutely-nothing-to-do-with-it/
https://www.lifesitenews.com/news/head-of-european-bishops-commission-calls-for-a-change-in-church-teaching-on-homosexuality/
https://www.lifesitenews.com/news/cardinal-pell-after-tendentious-and-incomplete-synod-report-church-must-rea/
https://www.lifesitenews.com/news/cdl-pell-acquitted-of-sex-abuse-charge-by-australian-high-court-will-be-freed/
https://www.lifesitenews.com/news/cdl-pell-slams-german-synod-as-suicidal-warns-of-serious-heresies/
https://www.lifesitenews.com/news/cardinal-pell-warns-against-low-quality-amazon-synod-working-document-in-prison-letter/
https://www.lifesitenews.com/news/cardinal-pell-warns-against-low-quality-amazon-synod-working-document-in-prison-letter/


tantamount

epoch

It: capisce

It happens, capisce? Sometimes guys annoy da boss and.........ya know........they have an "accident" or they just......er......*cough*........disappear.

Ad astra per aspera

Agile governance. Flash-mob rule.


pariah
scapegoat

jubilee

the attack on Nord Stream 2

Foregone conclusion
2023: Famous philosopher Yuval Noah Harari wrote a thinkpiece for The Guardian about how Russia has already lost the war: “this war is likely to be long-lasting. Taking different forms, it may well continue for years. But the most important issue has already been decided”.

A THINKPIECE

18C novelists all claim knoldge ship rigging. Now it IT/hacking.

lycurgus
hammurbai
draconian

wk w hi iq malus cos hi tolerance complexity

robots take jobs
	re train
		50% popn > avg IQ. Assuming normal distrib no skew (norm has no skew by defn?)

Toil

dub tavini vs alb
	batting around stories of human misery to score points as if tennis balls

y hypos
	cool. If i admit 2, will y fof?

neoprene
neotrad

sorbethane?]

there was an old lady who lived in a shoe
there was an old lady who swallowed a fly
Solomon Grundy
Old King Cole
Mother Hubbard
Mother Goose
Wednesday's Child
12 Days of Xmas

a new york minute
a country mile

flouncw

mounce greek

tote bag

opulent
smiling assassin

vestibule

satchel

Oblast

so-called
	yes they ar called so. By ev1

Rolex

Amish
Mennonite

Coptic
Assyrian RC

in communion w Rome

1 sq km = 247.105381 acres

marina

remanded in custody

Pueri
	study tools
	https://www.chegg.com/

obstreperous

propensity
propinquity

Endocrine

milieu

phthalates, chemicals used in plastic manufacturing, which can impact how the hormone endocrine is produced.

automatic
autonomous

GPT-3 stands for Generative Pre-trained Transformer 3 – it’s the third version of the tool to be released.
In short, this means that it generates text using algorithms that are pre-trained – they’ve already been fed all of the data they need to carry out their task. Specifically, they’ve been fed around 570gb of text information gathered by crawling the internet (a publicly available dataset known as CommonCrawl) along with other texts selected by OpenAI, including the text of Wikipedia.

slavery drama Emancipation

selective outrage

riffing on topics

--------------------------------------------------
https://www.newshub.co.nz/home/entertainment/2023/03/chris-rock-mocks-meghan-markle-over-royal-family-racism-claims.html
Chris Rock has ridiculed Meghan Markle in his latest comedy special, which he also used to take aim at Will Smith over the infamous Oscars slap.

The Duchess of Sussex sensationally accused the Royal Family of racism in an interview with Oprah Winfrey after she and husband Prince Harry chose to step down from official duties - but Rock joked what she was exposed to wasn't racism, but rather standard "in-law shit". 

In his Netflix special Selective Outrage, Rock took aim at people he claimed intentionally portray themselves as victims, including Meghan.

"That shit she went through was not racism. It was just some in-law shit," Rock said.

"'Oprah, they're so racist they wanted to know how brown the baby was going to be'. I'm like, that's not racist, because even black people want to know how brown the baby's going to be!"



They are the OGs of racism.
--------------------------------------------------
dilemma

aloof

acolytes

Incels

etymol celebate

zero sum thinking

disenfranchised

calling it out

mixed messaging

epitome

etymol seismology
ancient sino seismograph

Mayo Clinic Diet
Atkins diet

unless I expressly agreed

albeit

regency

save a bad decision by get feedback & remove "outliers"

per se

Impala
Coronet
cormetto
corsage
corvette

Quiz: recognise city from street maps
	monuments
	photo of famous street

Extant

stands to reason

scathing
lukewarm

GDP vs GNP

brain fade

feisty
SANZAAR

----------------
Scott Adams, the comic creator who was dropped by hundreds of publications after his recent racist comments, tweeted that Dilbert Reborn will launch exclusively on his subscription site on March 13.

Adams told the Washington Post the initial strips will show the character of Ratbert "as a 'context removing editor' at a media outlet that spoofs newspapers like The Post."
----------------

furore

purporting

espouse

on the beltline in a snowstorm
waiver

behind every great wn there's 10 jeals btches trying to stab them in the back

Heartland

brazen
strip mall

BOOST IN CREATIVITY AND FOCUS
According to recent studies, fiddling with items at your desk can aid thought process and improve productivity!
As a rule of thumb, the heavier the top is, the longer it will spin. 

red gold
white gold
tungsten

disbursements

bonanza

unemployment insurance instead of dole/benefit

freefall
skyfall?
terminal velocity
escape velocity
velocity vs speed

perjury

the dark web
the deep web

USA 1099 tax forms

“social engineering” attacks

jail and prison inmates
transnational
international

tntracrural

GOP
Redpublican vs blue

Creepypastas are the folktales of the internet generation. 

Chinese room penrose
chinese whispers
	water torture

hapless

happenstance

stasis
anabasis

demeanor

The concept of a human turning into a wolf is present in Greek mythology, where King Lycaon of Arcadia was turned into a werewolf by Zeus as punishment (hence the name lycanthropy).

demise
demesne

mussels perform the important function of filtering polluted water from the riverbed.

proformis (muscle?)
piriformis

The gastric brooding frog disappeared, according to experts, in 1981. Originally from Australia, this amphibian, apart from having a rather peculiar reproductive process, was also the subject of studies to achieve a cure against ulcers.
To reproduce, the frog would swallow the fertilized eggs to incubate them inside. Its stomach would then swell until the moment of "giving birth," in which its ready-made and upright young would come out of its mouth.

Blue macaw: sad ending despite warnings
Anyone who has seen the animated film 'Rio' (2011) will be familiar with this animal. The characters Blu and Perla were two blue macaws. It is important to cite this movie because it already warned (unsuccessfully) of the danger that this species would disappear.

etymol truncate

collateral

When Thomas Edison electrocuted an elephant in 1903, many people were understandably horrified at the idea of powering their homes with the stuff.

Doctors prescribed heroin and it was an ingredient of cough syrups, while Sigmund Freud used cocaine to help with both depression and indigestion.

Tomatoes
During the 18th century, these delicious fruits gained a reputation for being "poison apples," after a number of aristocrats suffered lead poisoning after eating them off pewter plates.

Before we knew the extent to which exposure to radiation harms the human body, people used to drink radithor, a patent medicine made by distilling water with radioactive material.
Eben Beyers, a prominent American steel mogul, died of radiation poisoning in 1932. A story was printed in the Wall Street Journal with the title ‘The Radium Water Worked Fine Until His Jaw Came Off.’

The color purple
In 1903, the Boston Globe printed an article called ‘Colors That Will Drive the Brain to Madness.’

At the beginning of the 20th century, it was uncommon for people to wash more than once a week.
Water was often scarce, and it wasn’t until indoor plumbing was introduced that people began to scrub themselves on the daily.

In 1900, the average life expectancy for an American man was 48.3 years. Today it is 76.3 years.
	infant mortality skew?

populism

shortlisted
Ockham New Zealand national book awards
Books that people actually buy commonly get short shrift at the Ockhams.

whitey

list of famous shipwrecks
	race riots
	prison revolts
	rebellions

get short shrift

The International Institute of Modern Letters (IIML) hosts Te Herenga Waka—Victoria University of Wellington's Creative Writing programme

Morgan Stanley

Val Morgan

The Devil in the White City Erik Larson’s book

dyadic

1up sc kep calmly q y is this candid camera? try get response to absurdity.

mordant lines of heartbreak

askance
akimbo

resound

stratum

infused

Cardiovascular disease is often thought to be a ‘male’ disease but it’s the number one killer for both men and women globally and is responsible for the death of twice as many women in NZ than any other single cause.
The female heart is about 75 percent of the size of an average male heart

afficionado 

niceties

the facility

fateful day
showcase
show pony
flexiglass

existential meaning

this is a first-world problem
privileged

rebuffed

autonomy

anemone

dreary

teetering

etymol
	teetotal
	totalisator

self actualization

expedient

revulsion

always a good reason at the time for even the stupidest decisions?

a greedy search algorithm

made a fulsome apology 
so stop clutching your pearls.

villain du jour

moral arbiters
stoops to that level

media shills

mea culpa

Ideology will inevitably make a hypocrite of you

dog ne blame 4 bite me praise 4 save

the international symbol for “you’re a dead man.’’

scuffle

making cartoon clowns out of 

This Is Unreasonable
Do I seem like a reasonable person?

defenestrated

C-suite

vis-à-vis

sycophants

drudgery
--------------
https://ludic.mataroa.blog/blog/the-corporate-facade-is-more-complicated-than-i-thought/
Secondly, I have been told by someone in the C-suite that your main job at a company is frequently managing what information reaches your manager.

in the realm of pure theorycraft

So here we have an executive acknowledging that it's well-known that your main job in management is to package information into inoffensive (and, if you're doing poorly, as most places are, misleading) tidbits to go into a PowerPoint presentation somewhere upstream. 

a total hack fraud

grifting

in an ethically ambiguous way
EMBRACE ETHICAL AMBIGUITY
--------------

ship of fools/barque st peter

disparage

trite
contrite

math
trivial case
infinity case

jk
far queue
the fakawi

patois
argot
patio

arcadia

papua new guinea mr shit
rascals
solomon islands 90's

guinea
sterling
league
carat
troy wt

more-or-less fungible replacements for money

administrivia
guesstimate

the dot-com bubble 

retroactive

Samson Androcles Hercules nemedian Lion and mouse. Other lions in Aesop? Perry numbering.

TOIL (Time off in Lieu)

going into liquidation $

he made a conscious decision not to suffer or see his having cancer as unfair.
"The universe doesn't have fair and unfair - it has events. And how you respond to the event defines you, not the event," he said.
"Cancer doesn't define me. How I respond to it defines me."

John McIntyre served two years in the American military according to Newsweek’s Ellie Cook and joined Ukraine’s International Legion before switching sides in February 2023.
Ukrainian Foreign Legion and the country’s Carpathian Sich battalion.

defective
defector

Chișinău, Moldova

ru allies/Sympth
	Turkey?
	Serbia
	Greece
	India?
	China?
	Iran?
	Syria

“All's fair in love and war."

streamers

smirk

Russia Today is a state-backed news organization
Russia Today is a Kremlin-backed media outlet and was banned in Australia, Canada, the United States, and the European Union in March 2022, shortly after Putin’s invasion. 
"When he made his comments, I'm sure ears were opened, but when Ja is listening to those comments, they don't just go in one ear and out the other, I don't even think they go in one ear.


dislike is too weak a word

embellished

micturation
nictating
	list animal quirks

rendition
render
matte/
gouache
tempera

game: 20 questions
the 64k Question

debilitating

roster

shied away from

the Screen Actors Guild

partition of India

American writer and poet Robert Frost

Cantankerous

Lifehacker, Enthusiasts’ Guide to Everything, to Be Sold to Ziff Davis
In the highly competitive world of digital publishing, so-called service journalism publications like Lifehacker are valuable properties.

loggerheads

INTERVIEW:
Stress test/wilfulness test (ne give in to unjustified authority)

Lex: Lien

records made w vinyl (what is vinyl?)
	prev wax

dystopian

protagonist

director vs producer

borough

collaborated

clusterfk circus ringmaster

Jane Goodall
Diane Fossey
Diane Leayey?

fawcet/faucet
tap
spigot

bilge pumb
scupper
scuttle
	synonym? start with J?

Captain go down with ship

scuttlebut?]

scurry

alembic
humidor
receptacle
subjugate
surmount

juggernaut

salvage law
squatters rights
	can I move into the middle of the squatters room
right of access (if let ppl walk thru y property (how > times?)can't stop it

words with no synonyms
words with no antonyms
words with no homonym

synonyms, antonyms, homonyms et al

forfeit

hub spoke

Sponake

plush

loiterers
gloaters

scamper
dash
proffer

opprobrium

Daemn Visn:
	M Sanger
	Fuhrer
	Cecil Rhodes
	Crowley
	Teilhard
et al?

Prefig @Xt
	Holy Roman Emperor X
		penitent in snow to pope?

seneschal
sentinel?]

Last
	Roman Emperor
	Roman Legion
	Gladiator
		non roman bloodsports
	1st roman Emperor
	List of Roman Dictators
		1st Roman Dictator

List of Military settlers
	Cossacks
	Serbs?
	Goths
		betrayed hostage kids achv?
		Augustine exag polemic politics ne achv sack rome?

the Louvre Palace
Versails
Sandringham
Balmoral
Buckingham Palace
Whitehall

Taj Mahal

nefarious 

 It's a little bit like trying to fix a squeaky door when there's a gaping hole in the roof, to be honest."

----------------
Consumer New Zealand released a report that specifically looked at ultra-processed foods, pointing out the high salt levels in products like potato chips, tinned tomatoes and salami.
Schofield said if Kiwis could somehow be convinced to eat a template diet, it would solve our eating problems. 

"On one side, we've got ultra-processed foods, so food that clearly doesn't resemble anything that was alive. You can have that as 10-20 percent of what you eat, so you can still have chips and beers on Friday, but not for breakfast and not for every night of the week," he explained. 

"Then 80 percent of what you eat is whole food. I call that food low in human interference. So it was clearly growing somewhere, running, flying, swimming recently." 
----------------

-oid

End of an icon: Toblerone forced to remove Mt. Matterhorn logo
Toblerone is one of the most famous Swiss chocolates in the world, known for its unique triangle shape and the distinctive logo of Mount Matterhorn. However, the company that produces Toblerone recently announced that it will have to remove the Matterhorn logo from its packaging. This decision generated a great stir and caused a sensation around the world.
----------------
have you ever heard of the rule of 3's for survival? generally in any extreme situation you cannot survive for more than:
3 minutes without air (suffocation)
3 hours without shelter for extremes of temperature (hypothermia or hypothermia)
3 days without water (dehydration )
3 weeks without food (starvation)

Reference: https://www.physicsforums.com/threads/how-long-can-one-live-in-a-sealed-room.685796/
----------------
ilk

ancient Gr Roman shield factories

podium

addendum
errata

Baton Rouge, a city of about 230,000 residents, is the capital of the state of Louisiana, USA

Carnival barker
roustabout
roughneck
leatherneck

Coulter was raised by a Catholic father and Protestant mother.[68] At one public lecture she said: "I don't care about anything else; Christ died for my sins, and nothing else matters."[69] She summarized her view of Christianity in a 2004 column, saying, "Jesus' distinctive message was: People are sinful and need to be redeemed, and this is your lucky day, because I'm here to redeem you even though you don't deserve it, and I have to get the crap kicked out of me to do it." She then mocked "the message of Jesus... according to liberals", summarizing it as "something along the lines of 'be nice to people'", which, in turn, she said "is, in fact, one of the incidental tenets of Christianity."[70]
Confronting some critics' views that her content and style of writing is unchristian,[71] Coulter said that she is "a Christian first and a mean-spirited, bigoted conservative second, and don't you ever forget it."[72] Six years later, in 2011, she also said: "Christianity fuels everything I write. Being a Christian means that I am called upon to do battle against lies, injustice, cruelty, hypocrisy—you know, all the virtues in the church of liberalism".[73] In Godless: The Church of Liberalism, Coulter characterized the theory of evolution as bogus science, and contrasted her beliefs to what she called the left's "obsession with Darwinism and the Darwinian view of the world, which replaces sanctification of life with sanctification of sex and death".[74] Coulter advocates intelligent design, a pseudoscientific antievolution ideology.[75][76]

Robert Venosa rainforest

Keynote

culture vulture

bellhop
dumbwaiter

transient 

hors de combat

soapknives
super vs supra
inter vs intra
Execrable abomination
poem 4give not meek ne turn oth cheek struck those held dear

vexations

vexatious

subaltern


the most Execrable abomination ever vomited forth from bowels of hell

subcutaneous
cuticle

epidermis

surfeit
lamprey

invective

brandish

golden horn
Bosphorus vs Dardanelles
	Troy on Euop or Turk sode of

Caesar Hx Bithinya
	captd by pirates

Bonobo

Orangutan, Dolphin ach

cur gen ht/pns cos endocrine manip chems in food/envmt

jk wo cck up n1 brn

analysis paralysis

etymol diplomacy

false etymology?
folk etymology

titular

Amy Stewart
Stuart Copeland

tophet

Congenial, forthright, and unremitting.

seduce
traduce
induce
reduce

feign
camaraderie

rummage
scrimmage
cribbage

rebus

bejesus

straggler

bedraggled

excerpt
insert

headwind
leeway
leeward
dovetail

joist
beam

operational cadence

under X's remit

Lions share

clump

a bit remiss of me

Gone pearshaped
roadmap

sprawl

extenuating

business round table

exploits

angst
ennui

recriminations

compliant

their typical modality

smirk

priest ne shrive rudolf hoss damned
provost

19C Itie hx

demeaning

rear echelon

A documentary book, War's Unwomanly Face by Svetlana Alexievich, includes memories by Soviet veterans about their experience in Germany.[36] According to a former army officer,

Inge Deutschkron

husky
[ˈhʌski]
ADJECTIVE
(of a voice or utterance) sounding low-pitched and slightly hoarse:
"his voice became a husky, erotic whisper"
SIMILAR:
throaty
gruff
deep
gravelly
hoarse
coarse
croaking
(of a person) big and strong:
"Paddy looked a husky, strong guy"
SIMILAR:
strong
muscular
muscly
muscle-bound
brawny
hefty
like or consisting of a husk or husks:
"the husky stem of a palm tree"

reticent

swagger

Regents professor
regius

as a matter of course

at large
banditry

besmirching 

atroc cause
	avg-to-good ppl hear of enemy bad behav
		get angry
			how dare they complain
				lowers stds. bad dudes on y side feel the temp of the water & dive in
	avg-to-good ppl deny/angry if told of own side atroc. How dare y complain after what they did to us/allies. They started it (even if we did)
	if matrons curs, sailors blaspheme

abstemious

Eire hist of foul lang?

tantamount etymol
sisyphus
tantalus

montebank
court jester hist of

Mann act
Ricoh
Herbert marcuse
Grammsci?]

kERMADEC ISLANDS/TRENCH
MARIANAS

argmt 1up. plastic paddy. like afrousa in africa, sinousa in china

calumny vs slander, lintel

seditionj vs treason

lintel
lint

alums

Congenial, forthright, and unremitting

feigned camaraderie

calculated risks

pageant

naysayers

tiara
coiffure

imam

newspaper El País

the Henna festival

realtor

Mildred Baena

water under the bridge

burning bridges

unfazed

piqued his interest

terse
laconic
taciturn
tacit
explicit
normative

do some ppl stay in Krishnas 4 vie?

Hazmat
PPE

Gas warfare

hist searchlight. Parabola

brinkmanship
	saddam
saddams sons

the film they appear in is frustratingly underpowered and derivative.

solferino

Mordecai

on a retainer
syndicated
syndicalism

Ken Follett

perturbing

Monterey

sobriquet?]

proficient
sufficient

accuse
recuse

Iron age trumped civilization: vikings, Celts, Germanics
Nomads trumped settled farmers: Huns, Mongols, Magyar, Manchu

and whatnot

Race
millions die over sth. Soln. Let's pretend it doesn't exist. & it will all go away.

pedantic

At times he could be accused of being pedantic, but actually Peyper is straight-down-the-line and generally very accurate. Whereas some referees overlook the detail in favour of a bigger picture which wants to let the game flow, he generally blows infringements as he sees them.
And while this does create more stoppages in the short-term, if the players are smart enough to get the message they stop pushing boundaries and the game soon therefore improves as a spectacle.

listless

Entrepreneur/startup/Ltd liability co oth ppl $
silent partner
holding/shell co

oafess

reimburse
disburse
bursar
bursary

etymol sacrosanct

RC: Hagia ne necess likeable
necess/suffice
syllogism

SK: 1up: Knitting circle
	aristot syllg repeat wds overherd meeting educ ppl

Howard Stern

siphon

Smoke & mirrors

ziegfield? follies

Spitallsfield
Camden
Picadilly
Golders Green

gaucho
pampas

incur
concur
concourse

in the throes of

pertinent

coffers
fixture
admixture
micturate
nictating

Franz Liszt?]

screeds

vice versa

Eg, E.g. or eg?

hauled over the coals

world's greatest successes... and disasters caused by confident ppl

Instill
distill
reflux

potsherd

rife
strafe

a start-up mindset

ream

List of most famous speeches
	opening lines
	mottoes
	catchphrases

catcall
caterwaul

repugnant

livid

Francis Drake
Walter Rayleigh

brash 

sleeping giant
paper tiger

Burr made the joke, "All she has on me is who I am as a person." Burr also said in the Netflix special , "I'm a married man with a kid, but I'll tell you this right now, if I learned anything in five years of being married, it's we are always working on me,"

Distractify.com

Awkward.com

He said, "Realize that sleeping on a futon when you're 30 is not the worst thing. You know what's worse, sleeping in a king bed next to a wife you're not really in love with but for some reason, you married, and you got a couple kids, and you got a job you hate. You'll be laying there fantasizing about sleeping on a futon. There's no risk when you go after a dream. There's a tremendous amount to risk to playing it safe.”

stream of consciousness

concocted

epub resiliency

citation
denote

Mn Tag
	anim characters
		thumper bambi

Bambi based on bk?

inadvertent

Ms Clippy

Ms product naming
	buys ne devs. EG Ms dos

Ms arrives early when ppl ne ready

Hype cycle
	trough disillusiionment

Shotgun ap[proach

guilty as charged

ChatGPT results feed back into training data

industrial (applied) ai

AI
	not answering the q me asking the correct q now matters

Millstone round neck
	albatross

conceriege

rottenborough

As with all big technological pivots, I have concerns about skill areas becoming redundant, i.e. i have children that can't type because of the reliance of ipads in their classrooms
Or even write with pen and paper for that matter.... 

Shannon
Lee

Obama 44 roar 44BC Caesar assassinated
	Ides

Silence is golden

convey
conveyancing

windows nt

workstation

master-slave disk

Steve Balmer developers dance monkey boy
etymol monkey

super 8

edge browser has pw safe built in & Authenticater
	edge built on Chrome me better & trustworthy

Jon Oliver

Authentification wrong Authentication correct

Yeah right, Affirmative correct

jitter
jitterbug

the lowdown
backbeat
upbeat
downbeat

Greek orthodox all icons 2d no 3d graven image (decalogue?)
cast aspersions

luddite
richard/robert own mill owner

shadow IT
	trad IT gates evth
	me if gate evth get shadow IT 2 get stuff done

Center of excellence

we try and middle-man it a bit
foster

Mn tag Ms 365

hackathon

stack abuse

automajucally
handraulic

analysis paralysis

complacency 

Jan Hus
Will Tyndale
John Wesley
Martin Luther
John Calvin
John Knox
Mary Baker Eddy
William Booth

William Tell

condolence
doling out

indelible

It girl
Twiggy
Mary Tyler More
the new black

hashtag

knee-jerk negative response
underbelly
withers

Hi maintenance wn

shoot the messenger
ne be mssgr 4 bad news. When restructure coming be the conduit of good news from coal fact to mgmt. Seen as useful.

Tom mcdonald rapper

Reclaiming the wd X ends up setting y up 4 attack.

dryest place earth attacama desert?]

D even temprd cos got out of system immed
	read/xp hibrow 4 brag rights ne liked. Prob ne got it

where does money come from?
	historically. How 1st step from barter to $ managed/enforced?
	if peasant no $ can't by iron tool if smith ne want grain
	D: peasants ne tax
when universal suffrage. Timeline per country


substack
stack abuse

dolomite
dolmen
barrow
menhir

brittany neolithic site

Diodorus Siculus

Physics Polarization

Insects see UV
Sharks electrosenson
et al

Monotreme
	platypus
	echidna

Ne b like Dm Hitchens. See both sides

Roger bacons bribery defence

Quotidien

What year
	dreyfus
	Protocols elders zion
pogroms

Gypsies, Jws ne integrate. Both persecuted. Other exas
	wat tyler revolt murdered foreign merchants
		rodney king sly
			or burn turn ghetto

PI
	servanthood of young ne how culture began
		dissatisfied rebs left on canoes
			prob began when land n resources ran out

keep calm and carry on

Ramadan
Yom Kippur

JK: guinea pig (linnean?]/binomial name)/crash test dummy (tech name 4)

boilerplate

Jk: puts fundament in fundamentals

gamut

unicorn JD

upshot
brusque
hibernate aestevate?] spring autumn wet/dry season
17y under mud cicadas
axolotl fighting fish

Camille Paglia

presto
abracadabra

municipal

Athens pelopn war admirals left behind mob voted killed prob w demos

plato gold silver bronze people
	philosopher kings vs wrr, merchant

marches (Welsh, Scottish)
Pale (Calais, Dublin)

skraelings

ineffably 

regalia

evocation

bulwark

ocelot

petrel

launch ship bottle champagne
captain go down w ship
davy jones locker

weir?]
dry dock
coral
reef

cairn
loch
glem
carr

Hidden in plain sight

per se

redouble

mountain dew

music certified gold, platinum

triple threat
	sing dance act
	baseball bball football

musical: rock of ages

Canada demographic change
	Vancouver
genre

df passion

estranged

brunswick
Leith
	sunshine over Leith Proclaimers
		mn tag walk 500 miles

type cast

shakedown

keep it real

focus on doing the next right thing

Alistair ? letter to america

condiments

Kia orana

Proformis (muscle?)

Monkey on your back

warranty
guarantee

warranted
arrest warrant

Linquivist?

floret
flechette

minuet
sonata

vanguard
	Evan?

Bayreuth

bong

SUV
Winebago

in the proper sense of the word, it is historic

Pajero
Sino chicken lover

Richard Sole
Richard Head
Peter nis
cooking with poo

Svalbard?]

endemic

mashup

proviso

Polyglot

Carbon black
Lampblack
Charcoal
Coke

depleted Uranium is not fissionable material. When natural uranium is mined, the isotope that is needed for nuclear power and nuclear weapons is Uranium-235.
Scientists try to extract as much Uranium-235 as they can from the natural uranium, and when they have a batch that has a high proportion of Uranium-235, they call this ‘enriched uranium’. What is left over is called depleted uranium because it has been depleted of its enriched uranium.
It simply cannot be used to make a nuclear weapon and its levels of Uranium-235 are just too low to use in nuclear power either. Russia comparing it to a nuclear weapon is obviously untrue.

on the cusp of

flashpoints

out of left field

Putin failed to appreciate that Ukraine’s ‘strategic depth’ extended well beyond its legal boundaries into Western Europe and across the Atlantic to the United States.

doubling down

testing one's resolve

alliance free-riders 

moreover

stymied 

with his tail between his legs

doused

dowsing

Parker tweeted late on Saturday night that advice from police and her security team was to leave the country and hit out saying "lies were finally spewed by politicians in power in Australia and New Zealand, boosted by a corrupt media populated by vile dishonest unskilled cult members".
presstitutes

alumni
alma mater

Vedic math

nonc
ponce

ponce de leon

bloodline

Theophylactus 

crown
tiara
neglige

Lateran Palace

barbican
bailey
	old

scotland yard
flying squad
the professionals

virulent

debauchery
consort
carouse

etymol make lerv

dismay

Detractors
dispatch
errant
St. Peter's Basilica
clutching
garottes

Thomas
	more
	aquinas
		a c clarke (paed?) logic errors
	a beckett

quarry

eclipse of the sun dates of hist

Popes
	resigned Benedict 16: Benedict IX & who else?
		Benedict didn't reapply so much as reinstall himself as pope, doing so on November 8, 1047. His was an unprecedented third pontificate.
		Rome, however, had never forgiven Benedict for selling out the papacy, and the charge against him of simony—the buying or selling of something spiritual or closely connected with the spiritual—still stood.
	Pope Sylvester III
	Individual got job Mult times. Deemed highly unsuitable for the Chair of St. Peter, Benedict IX was drummed out of the city in 1045 by a mob of disgruntled Romans. He was replaced by Pope Sylvester III. But the disgraced pontiff refused to give up the papacy.
	antipopes
	assassinated

JWoulfe pet names familiarity
	Benny
	Frank
need be brutal rude. Niceness appeases. Feeds the embers.

Lateran Palace (during the era of the Papal States, popes rarely resided in the Vatican. Instead, the palace was their habitual residence for about a thousand years).

excommunication

dissolute

feasts of fornication

out of the blue

mn tag else elsa (Frozen)

pension etymol
squalid
squall

Helena Bonham Carter

dugong
sea com
manatee

matinee

suspense and intrigue

Holy Roman Emperor prefig'd @Xt

hapless
disgruntled

predilection

unscrupulous

seethe

beleaguered

which popes fought in battle

The thorn in the side of

catacombs

delve

undulate
undine
deluge
luge sled

bullish
bear mkt

infodemic

lexicon
concordance

flurry
sleet

acrid
dank

John Paul Jones

portfolio

force multipliers

backronym

Quiz
Which McDonald’s burger is associated with economics? 
	big mac

Accent: Fr: Whenever wherever wheneveurgh, whereveurgh

downplay

square peg

panacea

use case

subservient?]

mis/dis/mal? information

smishing attack?

Hugo Grotius

pamphleteer

ppl fight what care about. Rem $ ppl will still fight
Argmt wwk all wars about $ (resources) ctr
	if so can't crit crusade as relgs

juggernaut

impetus
whodunnit
who-they-done-in

delectable

fodder
resurgence
anthology
grievous

a Four Seasons resort

slated to take a month-long break

impending 

Kismet

Name meanings as mn tags
	sly etymol
	sly trans oth lang
	or image wd looks like

Shadow IT
	DW

Sequoia

Based on true events, this movie follows game developer and entrepreneur Henk Rogers as he travels to the Soviet Union to work with Tetris creator Alexey Pajitnov to bring the beloved game to the rest of the world.

scarify

these policies are "no longer socialism by stealth", as Sir John Key once described them.

Don Brash infamous (Remuera?) comments

hush money
weasel words

Media should say (alleged) crime not crime, until verdict

dbain. Get over it. ctr
dbain. Not guilty. But did premeditatedly end lives J blief.

echelon

cornerstone

Charism

oblation

binding prayer

collateral damage

culprit

concice
conscience

coining a phrase
too big too fail

"Ἐν οἴνῳ ἀλήθεια" (En oinō alētheia)
"In vīnō vēritās, in aquā sānitās"

dissimulate
Royal Mint

How 1st coins in hist value set?

indulged
indulgences crusades Luther

distraught

Danger Tourism

embolism

henchmen

ardent
Waco Massacre 1993
	killed 86 ppl
	51-day standoff
	
Ruby Ridge
dissimulate
Extort
Bullhorn
resonance
weaponizing x
concur
overreach

unwieldy

Movie Horrible Bosses

gung ho

swimmingly

ensure
ensue

ensign
jack

succulent

cursory

cursive
serif
kerning
kern gael wrr
keening

Orange is a city and the county seat of Orange County, Texas, United States. 

stem cells

tamarind

Samarkand
	Sacked by Ivan Terrible?

Timbuktoo

Closing the deal

pronto

headwind
tailwind

emphatically

going postal

inclement weather

rite of passage

coming of age
bildungsroman?]

fanciful

hat-trick

Futurist
	Trend Analysis

tangible

tangential

fungible etymol

Explain Blockchain

“I don’t care how much power, brilliance or energy you have, if you don’t harness it and focus it on a specific target, and hold it there you’re never going to accomplish as much as your ability warrants.” ~ Zig Ziglar

come one, come all

negative emtn: happy when sth bad happens or je pouring scorn on things

partisan

dismay

doesn't pull his punches

coalesce

evanescent

Grammar:
are a distraction from the bigger story here – the all-out assault on the
vs
:
;

here to fore: to the fore here?
jk hair to fore
therefore: there to the fore? For there
sly German multi words
Herein: in here?

lobbying

That's a moot point

net carbon zero certified. Cost of that?

food labelling. End of snake oil

Stormont Northern Ireland

Bluetooth

coercive 

Milne

periphery 

Because of course, ‘the cloud’ is not really in the sky. It’s firmly grounded in banks of computers dotted around the world.

albeit

Our power generation is 80% renewable, but much of that is from the southern hydro lakes.
That reduces latency – the lag time on uploading and downloading data. But it also worsens an imbalance in New Zealand’s power network. Our power generation is 80% renewable, but much of that is from the southern hydro lakes.
Most of the demand is in the North Island, where there is far less renewable power generated – the wind farms and existing geothermal generators aren’t a patch on the big southern dams. It’s expensive to transmit the power north, and there are technical constraints on doing so.

Tiwai Point aluminium smelter

Electricity
earth wire
lightning safety. Under tree.

D: make X look soso
	0 charm
	 expect

expectorate
egesta

sysnonyms 4 merde, egesta

carbon footprint

is already spoken for by

has been slated for its

is anxious to offset that criticism

List of superstitions

names 4 diff spider web types: funnel, orb...

making a strategic detour to trick their prey

arthropods

veritable 

visceral

the hugely influential human bias known as the “babyface effect.”
It is a well-known fact that we treat species with baby-like features, such as oversized eyes, large foreheads, and small noses, with more compassion than those without.

doe eyes

svelte
buxom
damsel

intrinsic
extrinsic

After years of requesting that the Pope rescind the Doctrine of Discovery, Indigenous leaders are pleased that their pleas have finally been heard. On March 30, 2023, the Vatican formally repudiated the Doctrine of Discovery.
The Doctrine of Discovery is a document that until recently, many people around the world have never even heard of. However, for hundreds of years laws and political decisions up to the current day can be traced back to this document.
The Doctrine of Discovery is a principle of international law that was created by Pope Nicholas V in 1452.
Through the issue of a papal bull the Portuguese empire could conquer and enslave Saracens and "pagans" with the Church's blessing.
Bartolomeo de las casas?
Years later, in 1493, the year after the arrival of a Spanish-sponsored expedition to the Americas, Pope Alexander VI (well known for his corruption) issued the papal bull Inter Caetera.
Pope Alexander VI's papal bull said land not inhabited by Christians could be claimed and that "barbarous nations be overthrown and brought to the faith itself."
This allowed the Spanish, Portuguese, French, and British empires to devour more of Africa and the Americas.
	England was Protestant
These Papal Bulls were simply a continuation of what had been going on since at least the 8th century: from Charlemagne, through the Crusades, the Inquisition, the war on witches, to the Reconquista of the Iberian Peninsula.
According to The National Indigenous Times, following Pope Francis' apology in May 2022 for the Catholic Church's role in Canadian residential schools, which were notorious for mistreating First Nations children, the Queen was asked for a similar apology.
	No mention of graves
The Anglican Church (of which the Queen was head) also operated residential schools throughout Canada, which played a significant role in the cultural genocide the First Nations people of Canada experienced.
In the summer of 2022, Métis National Council president Cassidy Caron called upon Queen Elizabeth II for an apology on behalf of the Anglican Church; however, the Queen chose not to act.
The Council states that the Doctrine has been highly damaging to the First Nations people of Canada as it "dehumanized non-Europeans while empires waged war and stole lands, resources, and wealth," The National Indigenous Times reported.

Part indig. Loogs indig. Id as alb. vs his opp
Alb from nam etc. Interview w Non Nam nam eg from Eng. Piss take wokeists

Native Americans taller?

Film Dunkirk too alb?
blkwashing hist
rescind 

Terra Nullius?

St Chris Columbus

repudiates 

coerce

Saracens

news outlet
inlet
islet

Charles III protector of faiths

All lives matter. ctr ctr

JWulf hypos RC consv @bort me ne socjust ctr

are accumulated on the backs of

Alphabet ppl in indig soc

riled

sacrosanct
sacerdotal
doctrine
dogma

women who, on average, get paid less than men
	ctr T Sowell ytb

rationale

beltway
broadway
rustbelt
biblebelt

Truth
	ukn
		@aricraft
			migs probe n turn
			send GPS
			takeout batteries

dbl barreld name fotherington smythe
fokker
de havillard
sopwith

emanate
imminent
eminent?]

adamant

ed lear man stair not there
spike milligan
syphlls poem comic
fleas bite em ad infinitem
henry hart
equine quadruped
poisoning pigeons in park
tom lehrner?
Wierd Al

Mn Tag: Zero Dark 30

Mn Tag: Military terms ith #'s in em
	sly operation sealion, desert storm. 1st named mission?
	famous storm names. Kartina. Cyclone Bola

If skorzeny ne hero then meaning delc
	swh I admire. Who also did sth brave (afterthot)

jk pirate, viking rp funny. Not Bosnia

elite etymol

Viral Video
viral marketing
internet meme

Commandant

larrikins
Bushwhackers

depictions

rampant
ramped up

precarious

douching 
carbolic acid
boric acid

dysentery, measles, and scarlet fever.

leeches
bloodletting

Doctors back then would rely on a few basic principles and made things up as they went. Sadly, they also ignored a lot of potentially valuable medicinal knowledge from the local tribes.
If you were sick and really wanted to be seen by a doctor, you would expect the bizarre medical 'treatments' available at the time, such as bloodletting.
Between 1876 and 1885, Dodge City, Kansas, residents' had a one in 61 chance of dying a violent death. The homicide rate was around 165 per 100,000.
While this might not seem like a lot, for sake of comparison, in 2020 the homicide rate was about 7.8 per 100,000 for the country. So, yes, there was a much higher chance of being murdered in the Wild West comparing to now.
The Foreign Miners License Law required Chinese miners to pay US$20 a month. That’s around $675 in today’s money!

strychnine

how many dubs in wild west

The Civil Unions Act was passed in 2004 - it preceded our same sex marriage laws. 

the sole purpose of this is to provide for X in all but name.

trailblazing

Trigonometry. Triangulation
TriGONometry paraGON PolyGON GONad
df Polynomial
wh0le numbers include zero?
e^2πi

select ascii('π')	112
select char(112) 	p

¶	Pilcrow sign - paragraph sign
·	Middle dot - Georgian comma

https://www.msn.com/en-nz/news/other/20-historical-facts-to-remember-about-racism/ss-AA19r4nX?ocid=entnewsntp&cvid=843c0fba94cc463abd077086de975a21&ei=11#image=3
Slavery existed in the American colonies, as well as Canada, for centuries, starting in the 1600s, when colonialists bought hundreds of thousands of kidnapped people from Africa and forced them to work as slaves, in particular on tobacco and cotton plantations in the southern United States.
Many slaves rose up and rebelled, such as Nat Turner, who led a revolt of about 75 Black men who fought for their freedom against their slave owners in 1831. Some 55 white people were killed in the battle, which led to the massacre of up to 200 Black people and further oppression.
Battle vs massacre
https://www.msn.com/en-nz/news/other/20-historical-facts-to-remember-about-racism/ss-AA19r4nX?ocid=entnewsntp&cvid=843c0fba94cc463abd077086de975a21&ei=11#image=7
	During the 19th and 20th centuries, government-funded, church-run Indian residential schools in Canada and Indian boarding schools in the United States engaged in the abuse and torture of Indigenous children to complete the act of genocide against Indigenous peoples in North America.
	Indigenous children were taken from their homes and placed in these schools where they were often subject to “physical, sexual, cultural and spiritual abuse and neglect.” They were brutally punished for speaking their own language or carrying out any cultural practices or traditional behaviours.
	Recently, in Canada, the remains of more than a thousand Indigenous children were discovered in unmarked graves at former residential schools, revealing further evidence of the horrors these children endured.
https://www.livescience.com/childrens-graves-residential-schools-canada.html
Rosa Parks not the 1st. Chosen for publicity
Martin Luther King Jr. delivers his famous “I Have a Dream” speech in 1963
Malcolm X was assassinated in 1965.
	hx meretrix?
Trayvon Martin
Colin Kaepernick (centre) & teammates take a knee against racism and oppression in 2016
https://www.theatlantic.com/politics/archive/2018/06/ceci-nest-pas-une-cage/563072/
Anti-Asian hate and violence h
	https://www.bbc.com/news/world-us-canada-56218684
https://www.thecanadianencyclopedia.ca/en/article/orange-shirt-day
	https://www.orangeshirtday.org/
	Orange Shirt Day is celebrated on September 30, as is the new National Day for Truth and Reconciliation.

envisioned this as

concur

tantamount to

hereby
promulgate
the prom usa
eng the proms night

with flimsy cause

grisly
grizly bear?]

narcolepsy

analects

protocols

underground railroad
	slaves usa
	sly tv series 70's ww2 shoah? Secret railroad?
secret army

ram raid

affront
effrontery
storm front
battle front
frontage
frontier
forefront

collusion
illusion
delusion

JDrank disillusion

MN TAG:
April: The darkest month in American history?
	https://www.msn.com/en-nz/news/other/april-the-darkest-month-in-american-history/ss-AA19ppzf?ocid=msedgntp&cvid=5f9c4891fabf48dec6b74d8e40672575&ei=17
Samhain Beltain
Ides March et al
Chinese New Year names
Islamic & Jewish calendars
Saints and Chch liurg cal days

Triduum
In Christo Rege
A consultant (from Latin: consultare "to deliberate")

salary salus salt
salubrious

mescal

faux pas

panned to the

berated
beretta
beret

abstain
ab stain

downplay

impel
compel
dispel
impending
depend
compound

exibhit
inhibit

clutter
cutter
cutty sark

bill act statute Law

Hosanna

1up
admit wrong gracefully wo lose face
michaela Natlib armed offenders
	1 missed
	2 got so else
	3 ne needed shoot then
	4 sposed to be pro
	5 I've got a friend ne an argmt
R va humble. df down to earth
So claim X. Significant silence

berate
beretta
beret

perforate

percolate

Theotokos

Metropolitan

etymol beatitude
	interference
anecdote
antidote

The second anniversary was marked on March 27, which was the 12th anniversary of the enthronement of Patriarch Sviatoslav as the head of the world-wide UGCC.

“God is the Head of the Church, I am only His hands,” remarked His Beatitude on the occasion of the anniversary. “I have always felt that I did not appoint myself, I did not volunteer to be the Head of the Church — I was called,” continued the Patriarch, reminiscing on his twelve years as the Head of the largest Byzantine Church in Communion with Rome. Patriarch Sviatoslav was elected when he was only forty years old, making him one of the youngest primates in the Catholic Church to lead a sui iuris Church at that time. Before his election, His Beatitude served as bishop of the Eparchy of the Holy Protection of the Theotokos in Buenos Aires, Argentina.

Emile Durkheim
Auguste Comte
Max Weber

By election
rotten borough

Jimmy Wales

UK flag
	Eng scot ire crosses. Wales?

Shakespeare folios

holistic

webhook

george sands ugly?

the Oath Keepers, a far-right militia
df far right
df left
	hoping y wouldn't ask that. Never saw that coming
proud boys
	w suprem. That include the dubs n jap chapter?

sedition
treason
calumny sin

a militia called the "Texas Three Percenters",
	laws: can own any weapon usa?

Restitution 

plea deal

attest
detest

etymol suture

ms cortana
other uses of cortana
cortina
df sedan
corvette

inclusion requires exclusion?
if include ev then no groups

seclude
exclude
include

Keep it simple stupid

The goldfish bowl

Think oth relig wrong. Whole point of having one

The statement (X=) "think no such thing as abs truth" presupposes the opp (to X)
trite
semantics
ctr
	df both
truism
tautology
fallacy
cog bias
cog dissonance

lip reading
mediev latin transcribers best when ne knew latin

Psych reading Q= tricks - counththe A's/the's in this text etc

psych Q= illusions

wit till ststute limitations up then confess
	norway "traitor" killer

Liberia

colossal

shoutout 

usher

Louis Vuitton bag

Generative AI

deep fake
deep learning

space
usa $million pen
Ru pencil

every sitn (sport, wk, soc) have 3 options

no such thing as a stupid q?

excoriate

anecdotes

polyphemous Cyclops mammoth
	vs mastodon
		etymol

fugue

debenture

jibe
cut of your jib

extravaganza
on the stoop

a wedge issue

The head of one of New Zealand's spy agencies has revealed it helped prevent three recent possible domestic terror attacks.
Prevent a "possible" attack?

nixed

perk

garnering 

Usain Bolt name origin

earmarked

ratify

manx cat
shetland pony

sacred animals
India	cow
Rome	Geese (Tempole Juno)
Egypt	cats (, Ibis?)

Egypt etymol gypsy

gypsum
flimsy
whimsy

cashier

Thatcher Arthur Scargill
Reagan Air Traffic Controllers
	bluff called

demeaning

bojo partygate
waiting for gategate
 or (Bill) gates gate
negate gate?

Usain St. Leo Bolt

pre 60's athletics
	shoes not as good (21st c springy shoes)
	track carved up & ne bouncy

Prod make  sign of the cross?
AOG have images in chch

larceny
felony
burglary
crime
grand jury
misdemeanor?]
hung jury
non unanimous jury
jury tampering
judge usa bribes from pvt prison convict kids
charter schools
	nat stds: teach to test vs teach well
bain hug jury
ever check if get job later from rich 4 verdict they like?
OJ jury

1up: SL/SC. Pounce savage early as test waters w pass as jke cheek. Shamectomy the bad feeling. Make em bleed

etymol Usain

ppl do eg sport cos natural ability/natural love of it or cos being good at sth is fun in and of itself?

slave trade
	guns cotton slaves maize

Origen

Wikipedia reliability
	Sci etc YES
	Palestine, Trump, Socialism, War Ukraine, Evolution NO
	How wks. Discussion, Peer review. Ne lazy fudge explain. Tight elevator pitvh. De bono common sense black boxes.
Palatinate

Palate
Palette

OLED
QLED

LIDAR

stethoscope
	etymol
	inventor/date

sui: focus of what can change

sui generis

generic drugs

vernier calliper
bunsen burner
test tube

Royal Soc Lec Moh wn drw kids abuse court > mn

Everybody in the world engages in generalizations.

borne
Jason Bourne
Born

Born again vs pentecostal vs evangelical vs fundamental

derby
great disappointment
dispensationalism
pretrib

protrude
intrude
extrude

there are two sovereign countries within the national borders of South Africa.
	sly san marino Italy
et al?

Landlocked lands
	ethiopia
	et al?

lands < sea level
	israel
	holland

great white sharks breaching

dum dum/hollow pt bullet

dispel

Andrey Natlib Ru commie. Ques. Me at least got bread.
RU humour? Wikip

---------
https://www.quora.com/Did-Russians-like-the-Soviet-Union
I was born in USSR and lived there for 22 years before its collapse. First, you need to understand that the USSR was a huge country (1/6 of the world's land surface), and in different parts of the country, people lived very differently. Secondly, in the course of its history, the USSR also varied greatly. Therefore, in Russia still there are arguments, good or bad it was to live in the Soviet Union, and all people have different answers.

Some advantages of the USSR may be noted: the absence of unemployment, cheap basic food, basic medicine free, excellent free education for all - personally, I graduated from Moscow state University.

Of the minuses - the lack (deficit) of delicacies and certain consumer products, lines in stores, bad service, boring mandatory ideological meetings , censorship and restrictions on freedom of speech, restrictions on freedom of travel abroad. But it was possible to cheaply travel around our own great country :-)

Definitely, in 1970s USSR was not the worst place on Earth to live :-)
---------

palatial

just checked my sympathy tank, it’s running on empty

argmt
	no sympathy 4
	not about emtn me bout rt wrong

is vs ought

alluded
delude
collude
exclude
include
clue skein

contraband

head honcho

cash cow

exploit

Robert Kelly (R Kelly)

Mn tag
	50 cent

file bankruptcy

leniency

pariah

probation

guinea pig/crash test dummy

stigma

denigrate

etymol grotto
grotesque

prerogative

indicted
racketeering
RICO charge

Mn Tag
	sam brown hat
	mr brown can moo dr seuss
		etymol seuss
	how now brown cow
	john browns body song
	brown nose
	sepia
	bobby brown
	browning gun
	gerry brownlee
	brownies guides pixies
hadoop elephant

wikip oliphant

harper's bazaar

mn bizarre bazaar bazza basil brush

wikip bad actors

Yoko Ono

secops
devops
dataops
mlops
aiops

faucet/fawcet? vs tap vs spigot et al

epitaph
cenotaph
mausoleum

Abelard Heloise?]

women's suffrage
universal male suffrage

etymol tumor

Likewise

plot hole
plot armour

hoist

vicissitudes?]

RSS (it stands for Really Simple Syndication) has been around since the '90s, and it's a way for sites to publish a feed of all their content in a way that can be easily parsed and aggregated by RSS apps.

bemoan

Contributory negligence

first cousin once removed

dearth

funereal

ensued

incipient

assimilation
tentative

delinquency
enclave

environs

the infamous ‘six o’clock swill’

wreak
havoc

per se

sergeant-at-arms

Mn Tag
	Highway 61 gang
	14 wds

adjuncts

syndicates

stupefaction

scathing

John campbell (lib) me dropped from TVNZ for a while (4 what?)

"AI won’t take your job. Someone using AI will."
Scott Galoway

explanation vs excuse
	why vs je evil

Incel

deleterious

pueri q why ripples on beach sand
pueri q why hear sea ear to shell

self-entitled and ignorant
"If that's not entitlement then I don't (sic) what is."

Piet Mondrian

persnickety

why did y...
	cos I find great delight in finding myself in Kafkaesque situations
the 22n'd try catch block
Heller'va piece of code
FIIK fd if i kno

Cult of linkedin

Klaxon
Harbinger

On April 19, 1943, Swiss chemist Albert Hofmann intentionally ingested 250 micrograms of Lysergic Acid Diethylamide-25, a chemical compound that he first synthesized back in 1938 from the parasitic fungus ergot.
It’s been 75 years since that fateful spring day, now celebrated by LSD enthusiasts as “Bicycle Day.” 

Schedule I drugs like LSD, psilocybin (magic mushrooms), and MDMA had legitimate medical uses.

Double-blind, placebo-controlled research studies

James Fadiman, author of The Psychedelic Explorer’s Guide

nictating
micturation

foundry

meagre

Hypotenuse

socialite

mitigate

spruik

Mondial?
Mondrian Piet

in light of what was happening

consternation

long-range audio devices (LRADs)

headwind
tailwind
leeward (antonym, synonym)

tipple

culled

crowdsourcing
flash mob

accolade

reprehensible
prehensile
reticulated

df human:
tools
lang
Q=

JK:
Img Brai
	Thas a safas mona lisa

disparaging

Mn Tag 21 Jump St

SS is an abbreviation for the Nazi Party's Schutzstaffel organisation

jk peanuts monkeys
	> fatter monkeys
Gerrie monkey tree
tv series monkey business - replace w pan trog

https://www.facebook.com/nznpmwg/posts/1197195927359680
Ross Agnew
28 July at 12:13 ·
Enough Is Enough
Those Muppets up in Wellington, they’re at it once again
Our team of once five million is beginning to feel the strain
Labour’s splitting up the country, since old Winnie was stood down
Now its Maori verses Pakeha and Country verses Town
Cindy’s showing us her colours; we know why she chose red
She started out a communist and lately this has spread
Just as Hitler had the S.S., our prime minister’s on the job
She’s given up on our Police and bought the Mongrel Mob
James Shaw has let his guard down, which seemed to me bizarre
Made it plain he don’t like farmers, especially if they’re Pakeha!
He’ll dictate how we run our farms, and tho people own their land
Wants to claim and take parts from them, his significant areas plan
The Environmental Minister, has proved that he’s clown
In spite of logical opposition said, “I won’t be backing down”
He reckons we’ll grow pine trees, ‘stead of food we’ll all grow wood
So I tried eating pine cones …. but they don’t taste that good
“Carbon Credits are the future,” David Parker staked his claim
We’ll sell them to the airlines, so they can fly their planes.
It’s obvious to most of us, carbon trading is a farce
I’d like to leave my carbon foot print, on David Parker’s arse
This land was built on hard work, greenies wouldn’t understand
Now hugging trees is more important, than getting dirty hands
Economy destroying terrorists, dragging workers to their knees
Governments blown out budgets, won't get paid by hugging trees
I well remember someone saying, “We won’t bring in new tax”
But the one they put on vehicles just broke the Camel’s back
Regulations thrust upon us, trying to drag the country down
And since the last election, same old circus … just more clowns
The Corona Virus hit us, back in February last year
Which brought us all together, for a while we lived in fear
Some countries liked our leader when she told us to be kind
So let the bastards have her, ‘cos most of us won’t mind!!

lacky 

“Some years ago, I was served an ex parte order suppressing the existence of a legal proceeding to destroy my books on a Privy Council case. Secret trial to ban my books!
“And then I became the McKenzie friend for a chap who was arrested by police using a choke hold to wrestle him out of his vehicle parked lawfully on his own property.

contentious
flense
flechette

I don't want to suck the air out of the room by talking about that any further
can feel the love in this room
V Bad Things script

a deep dive

career limiting
	ending

jk: Not a good way to start a q

Mn Tag: Indianapolis 500.

what is assurance in a business context?

microaggression?]
	more like microanxiety. Shi, shit, better watch what i say

“Pervasive intelligence” will emerge through a massively distributed digital connectivity and cloud fabric, transforming our economy.

Fools rush in where angels with to tread

stringent 

1up
that was an attempt to get the last word in
as was that
touche/
pas de touche/

foible
foil

petard hoist
heist

pewter
brass
patina
tarnish
verdigris
rust

sward

ratiocinate
reify
ideation
Philos glossary

clade

MARQUEE
MARQUISE
MARCHINESSE
MARGREAVE

baby daddy

sic
ibid
[]

7 stages of grief
the hype cycle

intern

patois
cant
argot

canticle
cantor

the overall trend of ram raids has been tracking down since August last year

Sci Q: why wheel look like go backwards when spin fast
why sky blue
why ocean st blue st green
why film of sun show hexagons of light
why sunset can look huge

wine dark sea
aegis
pallas athene
winged words
rosy finger dawn
et al

tilt
tilt at mindmills
don quixote @reading too > theme

abridged

epigram

Auteurism

mojo

litigious
mitigate

Royal Ascott
The Proms
Royal Flower show
Grand National
Kentucky Derby

Geneva conv vs hague
	can kill surrendered men if return to battle & captured 2nd time/
	the great escape Chchill

Wikip: Just war theory

Leica. Flower?
	Graham Greene stood under a crumbling archway, behind the camera, a Leica dangling from his neck
Joan Didion
www lit hub

a light linen open-necked Cuban guayabera hanging loosely over his trousers.

Noël Coward

incongruous 
with an umbrella to boot.

Coward had composed and sung the classic 1930s ditty “Mad Dogs and Englishmen
decry

hirsute

predilection

perfunctory

boaed shorts
dungarees
boat shoes
slacks
loafers
brothel creepers
creeping Jesus

greenhorn
dude
dandy
fop

sierra madre

motley

lark
larrikin
brouhaha
hooligan

forthright

wikip bullfighting

boorish

interloper

reticence

wry

scorn
machismo
scofflaw

trespassing

postmodern

cahoots
caboose
calaboose
calabassa
calabash
gourd
canteloupe

yaws

maven

stultify
stupefaction
apoplexy

mn tag: stuka?

vignette

graveyard shift

Residual risk

personages
parsonage
sexton

trite

haphazard?]
happenstance

serendip sri lanka?
	walpole?

demuntificationisator
demungificationisator

fake-outs
ghosting
wd 4 outing so on the web - revealing their address etc (threat of attack)

blue chip

old glory
yankee doodle

class action lawsuit
Cambridge Analytica

Meta agreed to the payment in December following a four-year class action lawsuit that accused the tech company of allowing millions of its users’ personal information to be accessed by Cambridge Analytica, a data analytics firm that supported Donald Trump’s 2016 presidential campaign.
	But claim fraud 202 disinfo?

1up. Blame gens
so... a long time ago. Ppl who look like me. Who were not my ancestors. 2 ppl who look like y
how kno ne y ancst?
how kno victims were yrs?

1up
(over) fair & admit y some fault me used as opening 2 attack
sly overcomplicated argmt opens attack to one wk subordinate clause
KISS
Admit to nth

bug bounty

zero day exploit

astigmatism
El Greco?

venusian

befuddled

redaction

TedX

1up verbal bombs

Liberia

plethora

futurism
futuna
obscurantist

Rimbaud
Verlaine

Baud rate

pustule
postulate
postulant

propagated

garner

frivolous

emotional intelligence. people who show compassion, empathy, and humility

interlocutor

apropos

Unfurl

wonderment

bloomberg
forbes
gartner
haylen

tickety-boo

antidote

apathy

aftermath
afterburner

arg want so eat copra ne serve, mix in pie

USA legislation pi?

Fortune 100

honorific

Wisdom comes from experience which is proportional to mistakes made. Hence correlates with age. More years, more mistakes.

heretofore

discalced
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
https://cs.stackexchange.com/questions/159779/question-about-context-switching
Matthew 25:33
"He will put the sheep on his right and the goats on his left."

'Right' is not always 'right'. Judges 20:16 seven hundred chosen men lefthanded; every one could sling stones at an hair breadth, and not miss. And not forgetting left-handed Ehud who slew Eglon. There is spiritual meaning in this : faith that does not follow the usual course of nature. 

% ppl LH/ambidex?
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

suckling pig
milksop
wean
milch cow

Hired hand (board of directors) rule owners (shareholders)

Hostile takeover force minority shareholders take low proce
IPO public offering? Going public?
insider trading nz

pertinent

curare
quinine
tonic water
sinecure
stipend

fixture

bespoke etymol

Routine hugger

nemesis

Deleterious

desultory

salubrious

resolute

innuendo

foo bar

rbar

rebus

Sargable

fungible

Our competitive nature becomes toxic when we’re motivated by others’ success, rather than our own self-mastery.

zero sum game

Bks:
zero
evil
truth
Hist of God, Devil
purgatory
hell
gravity
pi
euler's number
Riemann
Cantor
Godfel
Escher
Bach
Infinity

------------------------------------------------
https://www.reddit.com/r/unpopularopinion/comments/pm5yjl/competitive_people_are_awful/
Competitive people are awful
Competitiveness is a terrible quality. Competitive people are incredibly unpleasant to be around. They lack humility, empathy and, often, basic manners. Typically, they think far too much of themselves, more often than not without any justification.

I want to clarify that I’m using competitive literally here. This is important because it’s characterized by competition with others, not self improvement. Looking to improve yourself is a great quality, but it does not make you competitive. The literal definition of competitive is ‘as good as or better than others. Basically, if feel a need to be better than others, you’re a terrible human being.

Edit: the responses here have reminded me of why I hate our species.

Firstly, competition is not the sole driver of innovation. Secondly, the fact that I dislike competitiveness does not mean I’m lazy, unproductive, etc.
------------------------------------------------

dingus

stagflation

I disagree, but thank you for expressing your take without being rude or disrespectful.

A double edged sword, A boon and bane that we have.

amenities

inhale
hale and hearty

most of economy is small business
financial engineered econ > real?
black econ?
grey?

This isn’t an unpopular opinion more than just a poorly formed thought. OP doesn’t seem like he understands what competition is, and how we passively compete all the time for everything, life in many ways is a 0 sum game. I might agree with him, like people who bring a competitive attitude into a collaborative space, but his /her thought is so poorly formed it’s just an eye roll.

Assuming everyone who is competitive in what they do to also be lacking in empathy and humility, on top of having “bad manners” is a generalization of this type of individual you’ve created in your head.
Competitiveness can foster those traits in individuals who are already prone to them, but it doesn’t bring them out in everyone who wants to put forth some effort and takes pride in trying hard and wanting to be the best/among the best, somewhere you’ll never be with an attitude like yours.


upvote

garnering

a surefire way

Apparently making everything a competition with your kid as they get older creates a mentally weak/insecure person. And not making everything a competition makes them mentally stronger as they get older. I read that somewhere. Competition can be healthy depending on how it’s encouraged tho.

dejection

flak

indignant

Maybe a better phrasing would be: people who believe they are superior to others, and who seek to demonstrate that belief whenever the opportunity arises?
Competitive is too vague.

I work in an extremely competitive industry where my rank is based off of output. I see a lot of competition.
The problem is the extent to which competitive people often fail to have the capacity to actively /support/ others. The "get your bag" mentality is strong. People trying to purposefully conflate op statement with healthier aspects of competition like playing video games and stuff seems disingenuous. Competition is often meaningless and unnecessary and competitive mentalities can be similarly unhelpful

This post reeks of participation trophies.
"Bernie shudda won! We haven't tried real socialism!!"

Op, do you like Harry Potter? I have a reason for asking, sorry that it seems out of left field.
(TRAP Q)

I understand what you mean. But when someone is competitive, they're not always trying to be the best. They can be fun to be around. But if you're playing a game, they'll go overboard trying to be the best. And that does not make them horrible people. It usually means they have low self-esteem. I should know.

Are you talking about any competition, or people who are always looking for a way to outdo everyone else and make them feel stupid or less than?
Because the latter is definitely toxic, but also far more rare in people than you think.
Competitiveness in GENERAL is not bad because it really does drive productivity, exploration, and innovation. It’s not the sole driving factor, but it makes up a lot of that driving factor. Most competition is a good thing, a fraction of it is toxic.
I too dislike the overly competitive stuck up types, but not all competition is people being jerks. When people use it to dunk on people or make other people feel bad, no matter how loud or subtle they may be about it, THAT is what’s shitty.

jk: Don't underthink it

Unfazed

jk1l failed that iq test
jk1l school 4 the gifted

Tophet

bivouac

jk: Projman r we there yet?

4GL

yearling
sibling
fledgeling

reprieve

Theranos
stint

flurry
snowdrift
squall

find y old pueri wallpaper & carpet online

Oppenheimer

Antiphon

Persephone
Hermes

Bear/Bull market
in the red/black

In 2005, psychologist Shane Frederick from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) put together an intelligence test that would get widely circulated.
Dubbed the 'Cognitive Reflection Test' (CRT), it's the shortest intelligence test in the world. That doesn't mean it's any easier than other intelligence tests. Not at all.
First question
A baseball bat and ball cost $1.10. The bat costs 1 dollar more than the ball. How much does the ball cost?
Response:
The ball is worth 5 cents and the baseball bat is worth $1.05.
Your first impulse may lead you to think that the ball is worth 10 cents, but in that case the total for the bat and ball would be $1.20.
Second question
If it takes 5 machines 5 minutes to make 5 objects, how long would it take 100 machines to make 100 objects?
Response:
It would only take 5 minutes. They are more machines, more objects, but the same execution time.
Third question
In a lake, there is a cluster of lotuses. Every day the cluster doubles in size. If it takes 48 days for the lotuses to cover the entire lake, how long will it take to cover half the lake?
Response:
The answer is 47 days. Just the day before it fills up completely, half of the lake would be covered with lotuses.
The explanation
So, how did you do?
Many people give at least one wrong answer - even though the answers are so simple. Why are these seemingly easy questions so hard to get right?
Shane Frederick gave the scientific explanation to this riddle. He says that there are two types of cognitive activity. The first runs quickly and intuitively. The second involves more conscious thought and additional mental effort.
Reasoning vs. intuition
The 'Cognitive Reflection Test' centers on the reasoning of the three answers: whether your mind classifies them in the first type of cognitive activity (intuitive), or in the second (conscious and logical), which it should.
You have to stop and think
For that reason, intuition dictates that the correct answers are 10 cents, 100 minutes and 24 days when, as we have seen, this is not the case.

paxlovid
	sly hydroxycloraphin?]


Wollstonecroft

Preamble

brek > important meal of day resch cereal companies

Doge Venice

Afghan 2022? usa flee hostages still there?
SAS London iran embassy
arms for hostages ollie north contras

Zouave

SELF: Shane & the Stump

bilabong
lacuna
wadi

A/B Testing

matriculate

Pokemon quiz

renowned

his online presence is absolutely skim

High Commissioner

bemoan
bemused

litmus test
acid test
gold standard

Fairy tale evil step mother

% wn died childbirth ancient times men or wn > vie expectancy
Infant mortality impact on mean popn life expectancy
	outliers
		abused by survey makers - if cuoll outliers on contentions issue lose big %

lewd

prudish

54% of the world’s population has female kit, and the balance, male

propiety

wn in spec forces?

berm
verge

foxhole
pillbox

The military has become a dangerous social experiment and if we ever have another real war it will have deadly consequence

Que Son Valley
a fire base

I served as CO of a Cav Troop in Vietnam (67–68):that spent more time in Que Son Valley than on any fire base. That was then….this is now. And I accept the idea of women in line combat line units…but struggle with how I’d have handled these kinds of questions. My guess is that in lieu of an DoD school solution…we’d have come up with a “field expedient.” It’s not unlike the situation I faced and ignored two gay GIs. Why did I ignore it? Replacing good proven troopers at that time is was tough. Likewise women have proven their value…so adapting and improvising to unique situations is a corner stone of leading.

Oh by the way, there’s a recent story in the NY Times or Washington Post about the Norwegian Army. They are fully integrated - shared toilets, showers, barracks - the full Monty.

bewildered

it behooves us as adults to not make a big deal of it

commode

We were all basically told that privacy is given not taken. If someone is peeing, then do not watch them, turn away and give them privacy. It is just that simple.

Bonds are forged and strengthened over communal meals — Cultural Engagement 101.

our motto became “Never trust a fart!” You just never knew what it was going to come out as.

prissy

expedient

Latrines

retrofitting

Coming from a deep red rural small town, that was a “not in Kansas anymore” moment, for sure.

I read the account of an American woman travelling in the desert with African women. There were no bushes. The ladies circled her, to provide a modesty panel for her. She then had an epiphany on why women have always worn long skirts and no underwear.
Modesty panels. It might be an interesting project for those outfitting soldiers to design such a garment a female soldier could don when she needs to relieve herself. Something that could be packed up into something tiny and easily stuffed into a backpack.
There’s a Netflix documentary about women in the sciences. One of the women related how much she was harassed in the Arctic when she had to ‘go.’ She took to drinking no water during the day. That ended with an infection that still harasses her intermittently to this day.

tailhook

I guess it depends upon the war you’re fighting. I served two one-year tours in the Iraq war zone. Even the smallest of base camps had multiple portal-lets. Some even had “Female Only” signs on them to keep the men out. Much earlier, in 1988, during the FIRE-EX JTX at the Dugway Proving Grounds in Utah, troops were out in the field for about 30 days. Again, lots of porta-potties for the troops, but as the TOC’s medical detachment NCOIC, we treated a lot of female urinary and vaginal infections. Women need to stay clean and field operations are inherently dirty.

Rule number one of peeing in the field. Plant your feet perpendicular to the grade so the pee doesn't run onto your downhill foot.

Army ROTC

cadet

RU wn solds wwd achvd?

ordinance

ordinariate

poncho

DEI /FEMINIST WOMEN & NORMAPHOBICS

ran interference as needed

it is what it is
	name me one thing that isn't

rolled with the punches

Improvise adapt and over come.

bunker

bunkerline

Soldiers in EOD are professionals and I would not stand for any type of garbage that would distract from our mission or cause a lack of discipline within the unit. We relied on each for survival, mutual respect was a must.

The basics. Make sure the breeze blows betwyour legs, not from one side to the other. 🙄 Be sure one foot isn’t down hill from the other. 😱 Hold your pants out of the way as you squat low. 😂 Yay! Success!!

I believe it’s called a pee buddy or Vashet (SP?)

FIELD ORDERING OFFICER (FOO)


burlap

bashful

tirade

living on borrowed time

night at the proms
regalia

André Rieu

andrea Boctelli?]

Greek Orthodox music, with the 18th century “Zadok the Priest”

honorific

​​“All hail the nature arbitrary, of privilege that’s hereditary.”
profligacy

Earlier this week, Nick Cave defended his decision to accept an invite to King Charles’ Coronation, insisting that he is “not a monarchist”.
“What I am also not is so spectacularly incurious about the world and the way it works as to refuse an invitation to what will more than likely be the most important historical event in the UK of our age. Not just the most important, but the strangest, the weirdest,” he wrote on his blog The Red Hand Files.

Coronation is steeped in long, rich tradition

blue blood
left footer

prima nocte

lavish

think tank

roster
rostrum

chauvinistic

unconscious bias

farcical

frayed

abrasive

Cuckold

seething

saw the red mist
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
https://www.msn.com/en-nz/news/other/10-mind-boggling-questions-that-will-challenge-your-intellect/ss-AA1aTzTq?ocid=entnewsntp&cvid=2e692c5bc8ab422288c70391db8f7e2b&ei=13#image=2

1.
What is it that lives if it is fed, and dies if you give it a drink?
Fire
One of the obvious reasons why water extinguishes many kinds of fires so effectively is that it removes the heat from the fire. It also separates the source of oxygen from the fire, which is another contributing factor. Even though water is made up of a highly flammable element (hydrogen) and an element that can cause other materials to ignite rapidly (oxygen), the heat absorption and smothering action gets the job done.
https://firefighterinsider.com/why-and-how-does-water-put-out-fire-revealed/

2.
A boy kicks a soccer ball three metres, and then it comes back to him on its own. How?
He kicked it straight up
When an object like a soccer ball is kicked or thrown straight up, the ball’s velocity starts off upward, but gravity pulls the ball toward the ground with a constant rate of acceleration. This is known as freefall, a special case of motion, because acceleration caused by gravity is always constant and downward.
https://www.khanacademy.org/science/in-in-class11th-physics/in-in-class11th-physics-motion-in-a-straight-line/in-in-class11-objects-in-freefall/a/freefall-ap1

3.
What breaks as soon as you say its name?
Silence

4.
If you restored a ship by replacing each of its wooden parts, would it remain the same ship?
It’s a paradox!
This thought experiment is known as the “Ship of Theseus” paradox, and goes back to ancient Greek times. Every year, Athenians honoured their legendary founder by taking his ship on a pilgrimage. One imagines that eventually all the boards in the ship must have been switched out, so is it still the same ship? It’s unclear, but the most popular solution is that, while the material is not the same, the ship does occupy the same space at the same time.
https://bigthink.com/culture-religion/this-ancient-thought-exercise-will-have-you-questioning-your-identity/

5.
If a heap of sand is reduced by a single grain at a time, at what point can it no longer be considered a heap of sand?
It’s a paradox!
The ancient Greeks were at it again with this one: the Sorites Paradox is attributed to Eubulides of Miletus, a contemporary of Aristotle. The argument uses the premise that one million grains of sand is a heap, and remains a heap after each grain is removed. This eventually forces one to accept that a heap of sand can have just one grain of sand, and it works in reverse, as well. As for an answer? Well, one could simply deny the existence of heaps entirely, or set a fixed boundary for what constitutes a “heap”—say, 10,000 grains of sand—and deem that anything less than that amount is not a heap, and anything more is a heap.
https://anthropology365.com/2018/06/26/science-race-and-the-sorites-paradox/

6.
True or false: This statement is false.
It’s a paradox!
The “Liar paradox” is millennia old and is broken down thusly: if the previous statement is true, then it must be false. If it’s false, then it must be true, so it’s a contradiction. Philosophers have proposed several solutions to this simple-yet-complex paradox, but you’re probably better off just leaving it alone.
https://sites.pitt.edu/~jdnorton/teaching/paradox/chapters/liar/liar.html
https://iep.utm.edu/liar-paradox/

7.
A man is looking at a photograph of someone. His friend asks who it is. The man replies, “Brothers and sisters, I have none. But that man’s father is my father’s son.” Who was in the photograph?
His son
Many people incorrectly guess the answer to be “the man looking at the photograph is in the photograph,” but let’s break it down. The man has no siblings, therefore the statement “that man's father is my father's son” means it’s the same person. If “my father’s son” can only be “me,” then “that man’s father” is also “me.” Therefore, the photograph is of his son. Does it make sense?
http://puzzles.nigelcoldwell.co.uk/fifty.htm

8.
The person who makes it has no need for it. The person who purchases it does not use it. The person who does use it does not know he or she is. What is it?
A coffin
Coffin makers don’t use them, and neither does the buyer. The person who uses the coffin is, unfortunately, dead, and can’t know they’re using it. Sad, but true!
https://www.riddles.com/archives/4714

9.
A person on a camping trip goes for a hike. They leave their campsite and hike south for 3 kilometres. Then they turn east and hike for 3 kilometres. They then turn north and hike for 3 kilometres. They then spot a bear inside their tent eating their food. What colour was the bear?
White
The bear was a polar bear, because the only place on Earth where one could go south, east and north equal distances and end up back where they started is the North Pole. Since polar bears are the only bears that live at the North Pole, the bear was white!
https://www.worldwildlife.org/stories/why-do-polar-bears-have-white-fur-and-nine-other-polar-bear-facts#:~:text=Polar%20bears%20live%20in%20the,sub-populations%20are%20in%20Canada.

10.
There is a word in the English language in which the first two letters signify a male, the first three letters signify a female, the first four signify a great man, and the whole word, a great woman. What is the word?
Heroine
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

concept

topic maps

trepidation

disruptive tech

acquiesce

discrepancy
crepuscule

saber-rattling

Proportional retaliation

Martinet
Chauvin-ism
Jingoism

UAV technologies

juxtaposed

Most evil HRE Holy Roman Emperor. Prefig @Xt

coy

vittles wittles sam johnson
	kick shin disprove sceptics?]
boswell

flash flooding

clamber

err on the side of caution

outcry

inane

part and parcel

aspect

one degree of separation
degrees of freedom
6?
K Bacon
Erdos

Ersatz
Elan
Guache

Tass news agency

Cahoots
Caboose
Calaboose

df afternoon

404 Which means that this page doesn't exist.

pervade

Gong

Gong show
Goon show

Azimuth
Zenith

"benevolent dictator for life" (BDFL)

thoroughbred

pedigree
burke's peerage

Anc Gk theatre et al comps

Tyndale
Wycliffe
Bbl banned RC bs?

Snowflake is HIPAA, PCI DSS, SOC 1 and SOC 2 Type 2 compliant, and FedRAMP Authorized

etymol distill
	hist of distillation

hist of batteries

ancient electricity
	steam power
	computing

doxing

moxie
doxie

Argmt: democracies don't fight democracies. CTR?

frangible

etymol bicep

codicil

Kudos

proboscis
chair manus?

subaltern

derby
draft

self righteous

Don Brash infamous speech

stalwart

swarthy

fixture

spurious

Revisionism

Francis chan rope illustration

M C Escher

catchphrases

bible verse about condemning a slave of a different master in Romans 14)

Barracuda

spat

action-drama series 'The Beast' alongside the late Patrick Swayze.

AC DC
	band
	Electricity
	Hx

An opportunity will present itself

connotation
conniption
connect
nexus
prophylactic
anaphylactic
praxis

cohort study
longitudinal study
louis terman
Alfred inet

what is kharma
dharma
chi
qui

propensity
propinquity

Lightning (not lightening)
	strike same place twice (ww1 shell crater)
	safe under tree?
	lightning rod
	Ben Franklin

procure
curare
curator

progenitor
df professional

foreboding

glitch

overheads
underwrite

"Data exfiltration, also called data extrusion, is the unauthorized transfer of data from a computer." (TechTarget)

Joe Bloggs
Jean Dupont
John Doe
Jane Doe

in droves
drover

(sic)
ibid
[]

BI ELECTION wrong
	BY-ELECTION

plinth

7-10=-3

Ivy league
World Uni Ranking bs

Non Roman cultures gladaitor equiv?
Last legion
Last Gladiator
Last Olympics
Last Emperor

bas-reliefs

watershed
Languedoc

contentious
tendentious?

giving credence to

cutty sark
marie celeste
haunted uboat

Erdos/Kevin Bacon #s

Silo
Silage
Compost
Hype Cycle

vernacular

fluid ounces

That said, I call Bravo Sierra.

the rule of thumb

Building upon my reputation as a picker of nits, I will point out that

extradited

"I know that you believe you understand what you think I said, but I'm not sure you realize that what you heard is not what I meant."
Robert McCloskey

mettle

temper of the times
temperament

tiennamen?] square

the Atlantic Charter that established the terms for the US entering the war on the side of England.
it requires England and all other European powers to give up their colonies at the conclusion of hostilities. 

terrarium

pinion

indictment
incite

svelte
buxom

"[It's] pretty shocking, pretty scary, [it's] first fire I've been in."

Ronda Roussey

Quagmire

MSM [mainstream media]

metastasising

restorative justice
Punitive punishment

Paul Henry

riled

impugned

mordant

mortician

A discharge without conviction can be given when an offender pleads, or is found guilty after trial.
	It can be used at the court's discretion and will keep your criminal record clean if a conviction could heavily impact your career or stop you from travelling.
	The law states discretion is to be used when "the court is satisfied that the direct and indirect consequences of a conviction would be out of all proportion to the gravity of the offence".
Another option is for a judge to hand out a conviction and then discharge the person without a sentence, if it's felt the baggage that comes with a criminal record is punishment enough.
Defendants could also receive diversion, like former All Black Sione Lauaki did in 2006 after assaulting a security officer.
	That's when a first-time offender commits a less serious crime and is dealt with "out of court".
Finally, there's the suspended sentence.
	That's when the defendant is convicted, but will only need to serve the punishment if they reappear in court - also known as a good behaviour bond.

Rhizome
Ducat

rubric

a private equity firm

liquidity

Bull Bear Market

Motley

Warren Buffett the Oracle of Omaha

brackets []	?
Parentheses ()	?
X	{}	?
Y	<>	?

Millais

susceptible

Herbert Marcuse?]

semaphore

fiscal
monetary
economic
financial
pecuniary

virtue
	sposed 2 do

mojo

disgruntled

Agar
Petri Dish

Lyceum

Maudlin

Bolster
Alumni
Alma mater
alms

flouncy

lavish

Lavoissier

Stats 3K ppl in poll 3% error. How know?

hashtag
Me Too

Cannes
Tribeca?]

16C Fr priest to royals satanism trial?

bollards

dishonorable?] discharge

celcius vs centigrade

jk. Vir 2 heads & ne enuf sang to op both at once.

masai involved in slave trade?

Purple Prose
Legalese
Ed Bulmer Lytton?]
Worst Novel ever
Worst Film ever
Worst TV Series ever
Worst Doco ever

1up RL Jonny English

Disney Rudy's Mountain

plight
troth

Bangladesh war achv of vir

unreservedly

novels written by commies/fascists/nazis
	ancient novels
	medieval novels

Epub: Strunk & White

Quiz 1st:
	movie
	tv series
	animated
	talkie
	colour

dolby
subwoofer
stereo sound
binocular vision predator vs herbivore
piscatarian
hi fi snob
wifi
awa clarion

Steve Jobs on meetings
	pref to death

Piet Mondrian
Mondial
name for sundial

Caracas
Curacao

Mn Tag Fortune 500
Blue chip
Cunard blue riband
Song 'I'm blue'
Delta blues
Spell pississippi
USA states starting with A

Trobriand

ASEAN

UNESCO

Fiefdom

A science fiction painting of a man in a space suit with a blaster pistol in a glass paned lab, with wierd alien plants threatening to attck him with his landed spaceship visible through the windows in the background.


foo

Sensei

Mumbai is IT hub

bouquet
brickbat

buckwheat

loafers

Piraeus

Parthenon means girl?
acropolis means?

adipose

Mn Zodiac

vivacity

immolation
jet lag
daylight saving
ears pop get off plane

boycotted
sabotage
guerilla

"Well, you'd have to not have a pulse to feel at that point like this was all just a weird joke," he replied.

Wolves in shepherds clothing
the bad shepherd

endocrine

milieu

phthalates



Bankers Lawyers low Q=
	careful
	banking can't fail
2 big to fail

If "Diversity is the only true thing we all have in common"
Apart from lungs, anuses, ...?
Can one person be diverse?
Cos we are all diff in (even) infinitessimal ways?
"true" thing?

wrt unique to each prsn. Thesp delc personality temp sly affect wrt?
	name 4 stdy of handwrt?


Ahmed Ibrahim-Naji Al-Alousi
 out of network3rd+
Doctoral Researcher, CDEPS, Brunel University London, Senior SA at DWP
2h
(edited)
Like this is a shock to people? 4,000 BC Mesopotamian Mathematicians used geometrical methods to do superfast arithmetics, as well as the very fundamental properties which underpins our maths today, amongst which is a full derivation of (e), calculus, the "Pythagoras" and "Apollonius" theorems, the Sexigesimal System (hint: time, directions, calendars ...etc). Closer in time, the Abbasid Khwarizmi (hint: algorithms ?), in his book Aljabr wa Almuqabala (hit: Algebra ?) and Karkhi (hint: the "Pascal Triangle") used geometry and analytical mathematics interchangeably, millenia before the birth of likes of Pythagoras, Apollonius, Pascal, Euler and Newton. Let alone Indian Mathematicians' contributions far back in time. I could go on about astronomy, medicine (hint: Ibin Sina, and Medicine being Madet Sina - Sina's Subject Matter), optics (hint: Jabir bin Hayyan and the Astrolabe), but I won't, and frankly who cares when eyes are shut and ears are deaf? And then, we're told that every Arab and Muslim is a terrorist, that civilisation is European, that we're somehow in need of liberation with nuclear weapons and for our lands to be plundered and ancient people, who fathered and mothered civilisation: slaughtered. Makes perfect sense !!

Cartagena
Picardy

Critical condition ICU
Serious condition

Legal defn: Unlawful sx connection

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mika_(singer)#Personal_life
	Melachi (the Witch)

Porfirio Diaz

luminaries

pedigree
peerage

idyllic

penchant

Mn: eighth astrological sign scorpio thorax

Liz taylor rubi?

Grimaldi

straightlaced

kleptomaniac

https://english.elpais.com/culture/2022-09-14/the-misfortunes-of-grace-kelly-in-four-acts.html
Writer Tony Lee Moral, in his book Hitchcock and the Making of Marnie, pointed out another political factor: in 1962, right when Hitchcock delivered the script to his muse, then French president Charles de Gaulle had decreed a diplomatic blockade of the principality because he wanted residents of Monaco to pay the same taxes as the rest of the French.
in 1955, shortly before she met Rainier, Grace lost the child she was expecting with Oleg Cassini, the fashion designer who later would create Jackie Kennedy’s image.

cameo

wayward

paparazzi

ingénue

dowry
the royal family of Monaco, dubbed the House of Grimaldi

marriage broker

https://decider.com/2023/05/20/caligula-the-ultimate-cut-movie-review/?_gl=1*rzkpum*_ga*MTA0ODkxMDg5My4xNjc1MzcyODc5*_ga_0DZ7LHF5PZ*MTY4NDcwNzgzMi4xLjAuMTY4NDcwNzgzMi4wLjAuMA..&_ga=2.76558101.1286589432.1684707838-1048910893.1675372879

epitome

Royal monogram

Condominium

High Society

Couturier

Lurid

torrid
torpid
etymol torpedo

Tantalize
sisyphus
liaison

David Niven
Peter Ustinof?]
Orson Welles

TV: The Professionals

Flying squad

Al Cook letter to America
Michael Parkinson
Gay Byrnes?]

Gracie fields

4th industrial revolution
Atomic age et al

meetings/wk expand fit time avail

wassail
quadrant

df vintage car

Angel investor

culprits

pen nib
blotter
horse tack

loam
withers

on the lam

undocumented feature

Stratosphere
dampen

liaison

chapperal
chaperone
au pair

gala

gavotte
gazebo
bower

prince consort

onassis coffin ships?

pastiche

magnate

protocol

staid
plaid

serenity

besotted

milksop
wean

wet nurse

al joleson?]

allude
delude
collude
clue

frumpy

wayward

prim
prude

truss

corset

oil industry saved whales

karma

marge peggy pearl

acclaim

cassini astronomer
hubble
william webb
galileo argmt

infatuate

palatinate

margreave

sobriquet

dowry

ivory faille

gulled

matins
vespers
nonnes?

mn tag silver screen

salacious

dalliance

a prince albert

hist of tattooing

etymol military/drum/sail tattoo

torrid
torpid
turbid
turmoil
roil

roue/

bewitch

seamstress

Drusilla

Lovell/Lowell

Etymol Ebeneezer

Movie: Goliath

CinemaScope
cinematographer

smörgåsbord

plausible creative license must have its due
poetic licence
dramatic licence
steal one's thunder
Deus ex machina

nary a
chary of
wary
leery

frisson

saloon

Hollywood could not have become such a massively successful business so fast, catapulting to a position as the fourth-largest industry in the U.S.—behind only steel, automobiles, and railroads—by 1920

Freewheeling

milieu

Los Angelenos

mayhem
mayhap
happenstance
circumstance

quibbles

In a small but important role, Jean Smart plays Elinor St. John, a cross between “Hollywood’s Mother Confessor,” journalist Adela Rogers St. Johns, and the British romance novelist who invented the idea of the “It Girl,” Elinor Glyn. These were the only two people in Hollywood who tried, unsuccessfully, to mentor and protect Clara Bow.

hardscrabble
underscore

typecasting
costume dramas
Tony Awards

demise

demise

Marlene Dietrich

bacchanalian debauchery
carouse
carousel

miscegenation

df derby

allure

velour

Famous B/W movie actor comic scene hangs from clock

flappers

burgeoning

berate

criteria

Cohort study

priapus

Tom Sowell on equal pay 4 wn

The reconstruction: Temple of Artemis at Ephesus, Turkey
©Courtesy of Budget Direct
The temple caused quite a stir during its life as it was attacked several times. It was first razed to the ground in 356 BC in a deliberate fire by notorious Greek arsonist Herostratus, who set alight the temple’s wooden beams in search of fame. After being rebuilt, it was destroyed once again in AD 262 during a raid by the Goths, an East Germanic tribe. Today only the foundations and a single column remain.

Argmt Goths ne ethnie

how > nations in Bible

Etymol Mausoleum

Elgin marbles

Iraq missing billions, stolen antiquities

% art forged

Human rights exist?

recuse
redact

depleted uranium

monger

coster monger
agent orange

Greece economic collapse
	civil war
	commies

Psychology of commies
	jeals failures?

switcheroo

cribbed

lowing
mewling
wicker
nicker
neigh

Zenobia and the King — a potboiler allegedly authored by Saddam Hussein

underlings
starlet

cameos

MISSING PAGES:
https://foreignpolicy.com/posts/2010/02/22/sting_wrapped_around_uzbek_dictators_finger
https://www.reuters.com/article/2011/03/03/us-beyonce-gaddafi-idUSTRE72243Q20110303

myriad

workhouses
footlights

vaudeville
magnate

tycoon

the Mann Act: transporting a woman across state lines for immoral purposes

saccharin

maudlin
bleak

soused

salacious

extolling

Bob Marley convert Xtn?

Devotees

Valkyrie

dowry
dowager
dauphin
Infanta

To confirm to the culture's beauty ideal, brunette Vikings, usually men, would use a strong soap with a high lye content to bleach their hair. In some regions, beards were lightened as well.
Celts lime hair


Scandinavians developed primitive skis at least 6,000 years ago, though ancient Russians may have invented them even earlier. Vikings even worshiped a god of skiing: Ullr.

snowshoes
snowgoggles

Showtune

showrunner

The Vikings would collect a fungus called touch wood from tree bark and boil it for several days in urine. The sodium nitrate found in urine would allow the material to smolder rather than burn, so they could take fire with them on the go.

deplore

chary
nary a

ombudsman
comptroller

kilOmeter pron

impute
depute
reputation
computer

wherewithal
herein
therin
thereafter
whereafter
happenstance
circumstance

PHARMACOPEIA

Psychadelic
Psychotropic

dignitary

luncheon

begrudge
bedazzle

Godded him

traduce

"Inflation begets inflation. When people are expecting price rises they're also more accepting of them," he says.
But when does inflation become greedflation?

Greedflation

sui
	hustle/muscle (etymol isumu) vs recipe routine hug (101 chem)

cry havoc
run amok
westward ho

Mn tag cat o 9 tails
	behind the 8 ball
	Mr Pink Steve Buscemi

jk 1liner
	& quit b4 lost sanity

Multi SQL statement builder Spreadsheet
	google sheets

disgruntled

Fragging
mint julep
gimp
gammy
gamey

Baz Luhrman

reprap self creating machine

stanza
black dot
bisect

Paper trail
Paper chase

Argmt SC all relve ctr bijection

Colophon
Anabasis

Premodern
	fear the wild
	fear animals
	fear the desert
	Xt, Muhmd find Dvl
Moab

sporadic
soporific

Tigranes

opulent
flippant

Oppenheimer

SELF: Over researching things

eldritch

Imposter syndrome

awash

Apothecary
scrivener

Francis Galton eugenics? Insurance. Actuary (Etymol)
Darwin
Wedgewood

Capital gains tax

Africa > ethnie diverse. How tell
	Human origin africa. How tell
Asian vs West attitude to Bankruptcy
Ltd Liability
Town charter
Trademark

Bootcamp

quote tangled web weave prac deceive

pejorative

decrepit

famous animals
	Racehorses
	Historical horses
	dogs
	dolphins
	chimpa
		space

accolades

JK: there are 2 types of ppl in this world
	1 those who can etrapolate from incomplete data.
	1 Those who? binary

aloof

Trespasses vs sins

antics

Strident

wan

Phoenix general purpose robot 2023

Ballarat
Flemmington

disparate 
EULA

Fermi envelope calcs piano tuners

prodgy apocryphal backstories

etymol anecdotal
ants milk aphids

jk: dubious distinction of being...

Dubiety
Indubitable

RC Dubia

Space Shuttle Challenger
Space Shuttle Columbia
If you are interested in the fate of the Challenger crew, I highly recommend reading "Riding Rockets" by Mike Mullane (hilarious, brutally honest account of what it was like to be an astronaut during the early years). Also, Truth, Lies and O-rings by Alan MacDonald.
Either way, they would have been killed instantly when Challengers crew cabin hit the ocean in a slightly inverted nose down (Scobees side) position.
Arlington

Native American religion monotheistic or polytheistic?

vaunted

palindrome

Mn Tag: Balthazar, a 12-litre wine bottle?
	Carboy

ticketyboo

‘The Art of the Possible’

China news story 201? aunt put out yeux child

1up je do blief y attempt sark

cutty sark
marie celeste

better 2 ask 4giveness than permission etymol (wn cp pioneer?)

jk: interesting turn of phrase

OPUS: Like real estate, rectuiters get small % each placing, so extra 10K 4 y not as important as high turnover 4 them
OPUS: Restructuring take month. Ev1 apply 4 jobs. Best get offers. Many leave. Worst don't. These r ones they want to go. Me they stay. Jurgen Ospri

Piazza
St marks horses

Fluorescence
iridescence
phosphorescence

gustative

Mn Tag Roger that
	Cabin boy
	johnson

crestfallen 

When I was a teenager, I was amazed at how easily I understood spoken Ladino even without studying it. Having learned Hebrew and Spanish from a young age, Ladino (a language developed and spoken by Castilian Jews) made sense. Similarly, some Iraqi Jews with a long history in Exile (since pre-Arab Babylonia ) , speak a Jewish form of Iraqi Arabic mixed with Hebrew. [Etc. etc.]

Feynmay - ne kno till can teach it
Educate ducere (ducare?)

MATH: Sum of digits in # until 1 digit. Rules 4

If mgr ne undstand what y do then lackey
	if ne cares then politician

Argmt: Ppl A move to land of ppl B in such large nos that they become majority & soone from ppl B complians then that is sign of pending destruction of ppl A?
Argmt: So saying bad things about an ethnic groupis 1st step to gas chambers, not State sanctioned killing of large nos of ppl based on category they fall into.

St Maurice the dub

World building is an interesting & messy topic. While its my approach to generally start with the story, then move onto rules, then art… there are some inevitable (and wanted) bleed overs. Great art inspires great stories, & great stories inspire great art. All art (including game mechanics) is about story telling, just told in different ways.

Accretion
cretin

Milan Kundera
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
https://chat.openai.com/
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Janno's iceaxe bit deep into the snow and he hauled himself onto the ledge. With his feet braced he leaned back and pulled on the rope, helping Keren over the last few meters. They turned and looked at the cave entrance, it's menacing darkness seemed less a shelter from the swirls of freezing snow than...
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
a foreboding abyss that promised unknown dangers within. The howling wind carried with it a sense of eerie whispers, as if warning them of the secrets concealed within the depths of the cave. The air grew colder as they stood there, their breaths visible in the frigid atmosphere.

Janno and Keren exchanged a glance, their eyes reflecting a mix of determination and trepidation. They had embarked on this perilous journey in search of something, but the true nature of what lay ahead was shrouded in uncertainty. The cave's entrance, once a potential refuge from the harsh elements, now seemed like a portal into a realm of unforeseen challenges.

As they observed the darkness, it felt as if unseen eyes were watching, waiting for their next move. The notion of entering that forbidding cavern filled them with a mixture of anticipation and fear. They knew that stepping beyond the threshold meant embracing the unknown, relinquishing the relative safety of the outside world.

Yet, an unyielding curiosity tugged at their adventurous spirits. They yearned to unravel the mysteries that lay hidden within the heart of the cavern, to discover what secrets it held and what truths it could reveal. It was a test of their courage, an opportunity to confront their fears head-on and emerge stronger.

With resolute determination, Janno and Keren took a deep breath and stepped forward, venturing into the mouth of the cave. As they disappeared into the depths, the darkness swallowed them, leaving behind only a faint echo of their footsteps, a testament to their audacious quest for knowledge and the relentless spirit of exploration that burned within them.
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Metaphor for absolute terror
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
The cave entrance, like a gaping maw of an ancient nightmare, beckoned Janno and Keren with a horrifying allure. Its darkness seemed to stretch beyond comprehension, an abyss that threatened to consume their very souls. The swirling snow, once a hostile but tangible adversary, paled in comparison to the nameless horrors that lurked within.

Each step forward felt like a descent into the depths of their own deepest fears, as if the icy grip of terror itself clutched at their hearts. The air turned suffocating, constricting their lungs with an intangible sense of dread. It was as if they were stepping into the realm of nightmares, where reality twisted and contorted into grotesque shapes that played havoc with their sanity.

The cave's entrance became a portal to their most profound anxieties, a mirror reflecting their deepest insecurities and vulnerabilities. The darkness that enveloped them was not just the absence of light, but a manifestation of their darkest thoughts and the specters of their worst nightmares. Every shadow seemed to writhe and whisper, filled with a malevolence that froze their blood.

As they ventured further into the abyss, the oppressive weight of terror threatened to overwhelm them. They could almost taste the acrid tang of fear in the air, its presence palpable and suffocating. It was an all-consuming terror, a state of mind where rationality crumbled and primal instincts took hold, urging them to flee from the depths of this nightmarish labyrinth.

But amidst the terror, a flicker of bravery remained. Janno and Keren clung to that last vestige of courage, pushing forward despite their trembling limbs and racing hearts. They understood that to conquer this metaphorical embodiment of terror, they needed to confront it head-on, to navigate the treacherous terrain of their deepest fears and emerge on the other side, forever changed.

It was in that moment, as they continued their harrowing journey, that they realized that true courage lies not in the absence of fear, but in the ability to face it with unwavering determination. The cave became a crucible, testing their mettle and forcing them to confront their inner demons. And though the path ahead was shrouded in darkness, they pressed on, resolute in their pursuit of triumph over absolute terror.
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
https://bard.google.com/
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Janno and Keren looked at the cave entrance, its menacing darkness seeming less a shelter from the swirls of freezing snow than a portal to another world. They had been climbing for hours, and the cold was starting to take its toll. Janno's fingers were numb, and his breath was coming in ragged gasps. Keren was no better off. Her face was pale and her lips were blue.

"Are you sure this is a good idea?" Keren asked, her voice trembling.

"We don't have much choice," Janno said. "We can't stay out here much longer."

Keren nodded, but she didn't look convinced. She took a deep breath and stepped into the cave. Janno followed close behind.

The cave was dark and cold, and the air was thick with the smell of damp earth. Janno could hear the sound of water dripping in the distance. He took a few steps forward, and then stopped.

"What is it?" Keren asked, her voice echoing in the darkness.

"I don't know," Janno said. "I just have a bad feeling about this."

Keren reached out and took Janno's hand. "We'll be okay," she said. "We're together."

Janno smiled and squeezed Keren's hand. "I know," he said. "Let's go."

They stepped deeper into the cave, and the darkness swallowed them whole.
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Metaphor for absolute terror
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
A heart pounding like a jackhammer.
A feeling of being trapped in a nightmare.
The world closing in around you.
The fear of death.
The fear of the unknown.
The fear of losing everything you love.
A feeling of being frozen in place.
The world closing in around you.
The feeling of being watched.
The sound of your own breath in your ears.
The taste of fear in your mouth.
The smell of death in the air.
The sight of something that makes your blood run cold.
The world spinning out of control
The feeling of being watched
The sense of impending doom
A cold sweat breaking out all over
A lump in the throat
A voice in the back of the head screaming
A feeling of being utterly alone
A sense of complete and utter helplessness
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

randy ingermanson
John Olson
Theological thriller
Karl El-Koura
Peter Economy

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
https://www.linkedin.com/feed/update/urn:li:activity:7085269720404275200?updateEntityUrn=urn%3Ali%3Afs_feedUpdate%3A%28V2%2Curn%3Ali%3Aactivity%3A7085269720404275200%29

Analogy: Football team.



An obvious measure of performance is "who scores the most points". One of the common attributes of toxic players is that they won't pass the ball. So, a toxic high performing player scores more points than others in the team but won't pass the ball. He thinks he is indispensable to the team because he scores more points than the other players and looks down on them as mediocre. He doesn't trust them to score so tries to do everything himself. The result is that the team scores fewer points. The coach drops him because the team is better off with a player who is not as good at scoring points but distributes the ball. The "high performing" player blames this on the mediocrity of the other players and the "political correctness" of the coach. He ends up in another team at the same level because teams of true high performers won't tolerate toxicity.



Greedy players, no matter how talented never make La Albiceleste or the All Blacks. They spend their playing days in reserve grade whining about the mediocrity of their teammates.



My point: Well said Chad Gono. Rewarding high performing toxic team members is bad for a company, just as it is for a team.
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

If 50% of athletes are doping, then allowing everyone to dope just because it’s not 0% is defeatist.   We don’t use that method for anything, saying that crime is out of control, let’s stop preventing crime.  We should be trying to fix the system, not discard it.  Now, there are situations where we can learn from the failed efforts to control a given offence X.  But let’s look rather at restructuring, or changing the means, and not eliminating the effort

Frugalism
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
https://www.reddit.com/r/Sprinting/comments/127b27n/what_happened_to_child_prodigy_willie_washington/
https://sportsscientists.com/2019/02/short-thought-on-sport-the-curse-of-the-precocious-athlete/
This article is a great explanation for most child prodigies in sports, I think the only thing it shies away from is the level of the adults passion for the sport rather than the kids, or the adults desire to have a successful child in some way imposing potentially borderline abusive training regimens and lives

Famous case back in the day was “kid Hercules” turns out his dad was slipping him something like anavar and potentially other roids, I would not be surprised if something very similar has been happening with Blaze the main topic of that article considering his incredibly early physical over development, that is without proof of a genetic myostatin deficiency, and his dads extreme social media pushing
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

match fixing worst form of cheating

saunters

“Citius, Altius, Fortius”, or “faster, higher, stronger”.

Proponent
Oponent?]
Deponent
Modus ponens

henchmen

top-down
bottom-up

There’s a concept called “Red teaming” that the US military use – it’s where they specifically bring in people from outside and have those people expose the weaknesses in their planned strategies and tactics.

apathy
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
As I see it, sport has value because the results have a meaning that we create and accept using sometimes arbitrary lines or classifications. This is why, at the very highest ‘strategic’ level, men and women compete in separate categories – it ensures that the outcome of any sport is determined by the things that society, generally, has determined are meaningful. Mixing men and women destroys the meaning of women’s results because they’d be determined by factors other than those we deem to be important.

For the same reason, age classifications exist – there is no meaning in sporting results when a 25 year old beats a 16 year old in just about all sports (with a few exceptions). We have weight classifications to ensure that combat sports retain their meaning and integrity for a 63kg fighter who does not have to go up against a 91kg fighter. The Paralympics tries their best to ensure ‘meaning’ of results for athletes with different degrees of the same disability by creating numerous classifications. This should be obvious to anyone.
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Father time
confirmation bias

pixelation

class action

aetiology

newly-minted

I always viewed “newness” as a distinct advantage, because it brings with it some aspect of novelty, a new way of approaching an old problem.

in the mens rea sense
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
https://www.quora.com/How-do-I-know-if-I-am-an-asshole-as-a-person-with-Aspergers
Over 99% of people with Asperger’s Syndrome seem to have a horror story about how they were bullied or abused by a neurotypical. Most of us seem to have many.

It seems it’s those closest to us who are the most inclined to hurt us. My so-called neurotypical “friends” would turn on me in an instant if I made the slightest social mistake. Neurotypical teachers wouldn’t stand up for me when I was bullied. One even actively lead a bullying movement against me that lasted three years.

Home wasn’t much better either. My neurotypical mother was frustrated because I wasn’t “good enough” a daughter. I was always “making her look bad” and “saying stupid things”. I was ungrateful and bad and breaking the rules on purpose.

If you had lived what I lived, you wouldn’t feel positively towards neurotypicals either.

Hate is a strong word, but it’s not unwarranted. Sometimes it’s really challenging for me to come to terms with what happened. I often feel like everyone is against me just because I’m me and it hurts. I try not to hate, but in moments of weakness I’ve felt it seep in.

Those were the times when I forgot about the good neurotypicals. The extended family members who loved me unconditionally. The man I hope to marry one day.

I would never forgive myself for treating a good person unfairly based on the actions of my childhood bullies and abusers. It was difficult at times along the way, but I choose love.
ANS:
So Non NT's treat y well?
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Some people with Asperger’s and HFA not only “seem” detached, but come across as being uninterested in having relationships with others. For example, they may (a) wish to connect with others, but simply don’t know how; (b) lack empathy; (c) have very little interest in the feelings and experiences of others; (d) have feelings for others, but can’t convey those feelings effectively; and (e) have difficulty deriving pleasure from connecting with others, learning about them, talking with them, or sharing experiences.
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

"Being nice is a behavior, not a character trait."

He, like many bullies, wasn’t a coward — he was hurting.
Not always. Some people bully for power and control and are quite fearless.
If you’re looking for something all bullies always are, try 1. perpetually bored, 2. dissatisfied with their lives, and 3. looking for someone to take that out on.
An old wives’ tale about bullies through the decades is that bullies are cowards and if you stand up to them they will back down. I’ve heard many stories and seen a few instances in my own life where a boy got beaten to a pulp because he believed that to be true.

I have read, because I read a lot, that the BEST leaders for a group of people to choose to have, are people with a “kiss down kick up” mentality. What that means is The best leaders are people who will “go after” the more powerful members of their society ( such as a lower level manager standing up to a CEO for the rights of the lowest paid workers). This takes courage and balls. A bully has a VERY kiss up kick down mentality. And I saw this in school where they would brown nose disgustingly the higher status student, and abuse the lower status student. A bystander who will stand up to a bully who ranks higher then them is a “ kiss down, kick up” type of person. There are very few of those in school. And there are very few in society. BUT those that are, those are your top leaders and the best leaders among us.

------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Web beacons
GDPR
Safe Harbour
harbor?
harboring harbouring?

bough

preponderance

deponent
modus ponens

doldrums
sargasso
trade winds
	currents?
gulf stream
	et al?

sapiosexuality
passive hous (Green e)
countries at risk of sea level rise

better ask 4giv than permission origin cp wn?

BBALL +ve vs neg:
Ne travel
Lock y pivot foot
pass w an open hand

Generative AI
	getting worse?
sloane brindall mcafferty?]

Dali

FENZ

ITSM

Compositing

MN:
In 1945, the American flag featured 48 stars, as Alaska and Hawaii hadn't yet become US states.
It wasn't until July 4, 1960 that a 50-star flag was first flown in the US.

cupola

App game:
State of survival zomb
Eve online
Clash of clans
	Whaling

Monica Lewinsky?]

Will to power
Truth to power
I feel you
I feel y pain
author Caitlin Moran

she was named after Sinéad de Valera, the wife of Irish President Éamon de Valera

crooner
furore

Neil Jordan's 'The Butcher Boy.'
movie in the name of the father

fada
circumflex?]
grave
acute
macron
umlaut

Mn Tag 27 club
	dirty tree n a turd
	8 ate
	9 nein

Joe Pesci RC?

Damian Dempsey singer?
incommunicado

malignant
malinger
hypochondria etymol

carpal tunnel

Xerox

Fanboy

Cachet

Name of Ms AI bot that went rogue
R Penrose beat deep blue

etymol depraved

boffin

biggles
hornblower

simulacrum
verisimilitude
sensibility
dissimulate
picaresque

etymol doldrums
sargasso

mistral et al

hiatus
scion

Aptitude: Mark Bosson estimation

sepulchral

the met gala

vaunted

Argmt GKhan 30m descendants

High noon
in the mean time
ain't

Talisman
Sabre

Malignant narcisist

etymol tangled web weave deceive
tropes

common law wife
de facto
de jure?]
alimony
palimony

parricide

patricide rome sack tiber animals

doubling down

fixture

good at 1 level ne necess same at higher
	juniuor tonuu
	robbie deans
	wayne smith
	Ben Blair
	scott robertson?

Wayne pivac

premise

bait-and-switch tactics
insinuate

Lauren Chen, host of right-wing outlet Blaze TV

dunderheads

screed

puff piece

Pulitzer Prize-winning journalist and feminist Susan Faludi

=========================
Left-wing critics accuse the right of being snowflakes
©Provided by Showbizz Daily International
With the radical right up in arms over ‘Barbie,’ some left-wing pundits are accusing the right of becoming the “snowflakes” they have long mocked. “Many noted “anti-woke” right-wingers had become what they used to hate, perfectly mirroring the cultural commentary of “social justice warriors” that was popular online a few years ago; pearl-clutching reviews based on shallow media analysis, focused only on the potentially problematic,” wrote an article on Forbes.
=========================

his social media network Truth Social, former President Donald Trump

cancel culture
culture wars
called it a dog whistle to racists.

winnowing

AFK away from keyboard

avatar
mandala
koan
ohnnn

haughty

Melchior

DF:
GenX
GenZ
Millennials
Boomers
Greatest Gen
Gen Y

tell me slank word in Gen X

Red moon
Blue moon
Big moon set
gibbous moon
aureole
nimbus

perennials (plants)

Argmt; IQ. Useless testimonoal knoldge
	can't hunt or gather me kno sci names
	can't navigate me know country capitals
estimate % knoldge:
	testimonial
	from XP
	Deduce from XP
	inbuilt
	imagined

Cooperation vs competition
	% of each in society
	100% coop no sports
	100% comp no teams

Tiepolo

ne want look under that rock
can of worms
Grenade bucket turds

OCD magical thinking

1up
Rlea
Wrong
me y said it w such such confidence
So when y say sth w conf...

confidence in latin
	gk

Mowbray? Name?

overbearing
synopsis
precis

Jk. Take it to a whole new level. Higher or lower?

exacting

home strait or straight

fiscal

faux pas

reverberate

allude
collude
delude

etymol narcotics

Skyhook
Tailhook navy scandal


Deepak Chopra MD
Anil Gupta

conniption

https://www.msn.com/en-nz/news/other/new-study-makes-worrying-findings-about-premarital-promiscuity-and-divorce/ss-AA1eJhvZ?rc=1&ocid=winp1taskbar&cvid=44d5a92a26fb4916f44a82da99c8abb3&ei=5#image=10
New study makes worrying findings about premarital promiscuity and divorce
“Significant and robust”
The researchers discovered that the relationship between premarital intercourse and divorce was “significant and robust” when accounting for early life factors and found that they could pinpoint a number at which people would suffer higher risks of future divorce. 
Nine partners or more had high divorce risk
	“Compared to people with no premarital partners other than eventual spouses, those with nine or more partners exhibit the highest divorce risk, followed by those with one to eight partners,” the researchers wrote in their study. 
Eight partners was bad
	“Those with one to eight partners are also at greater risk of divorce,” the study’s authors noted, “though this coefficient is weaker than for those with nine or more partners.” The odds for those with 8 premarital partners were 64% higher than those with no partners. 
The lowest-risk group
	People with the lowest risk of a future divorce had no previous premarital partners or non-spousal relationships, which indicated there was a very real relationship between the number of partners one had before marriage and the future possibility of divorce.
Equal across genders
	These results held true across all genders and the researchers found no evidence that premarital male and female relationships had varying outcomes in divorce risks, which is an interesting finding considering the varying views on promiscuity in Western culture.
Late-marriage divorce rates
	The study was published in the Journal of Family Issues and also contained a number of other novel discoveries about each wave of data they examined, including the finding that those who married for the first time later in life divorced about 10% of the time.
Other interesting findings
	Interestingly, the researchers found that roughly 21% of marriages had ended in divorce among the three ways of data they analyzed, and an overwhelming majority of people (84%) reported having had premarital or non-spousal relationships.


plausible

The color of the octopus blood is blue. It is due to a pigment called hemocyanin which contains copper atoms instead of iron.

forensic etymol
ideation
reify

Croupier

Cash cow
Mammon mammary
semolions

underpinned

aspirationalism

debases

Denis O'Reilly

bellicose

insolent

impounded
the pound

IKEA

demise
demesne

Ivy League

1st rollercoaster ever?

list of famous geysers/geothermal areas
famous volcanoes
glaciers

circular opinions

Heirloom

esteem

propensity

Filter bubble

etymol emulate
jk emu late

showpiece

hapless
luckless
witless
	et al?
happenstance
circumstance
	et al?

df vermin

sanctimonious

quipped
quaf

Tawa – Wellington’s northernmost suburb

raffish

unkempt

flaunted

soap opera Pukemanu

the lowdown

frog marched
class A, C drugs

https://www.msn.com/en-nz/news/other/this-simple-brain-trick-can-improve-your-memory-and-boost-learning/ss-AA1eX32x?ocid=entnewsntp&cvid=a1b07ad8f2734b45b67e3c96a53696a4&ei=42#image=2
Well, the trick isn’t really a trick per se but rather a change in your mindset. Researchers discovered that people who shift from a high-pressure mindset to one rooted in curiosity are able to improve their memory substantially. 
“Imperative motivation links urgent goals to actions, narrowing the focus of attention and memory. Conversely, interrogative motivation integrates goals over time and space, supporting rich memory encoding for flexible future use,” the study’s authors wrote. 
The urgent—or imperative—group was told to pretend they were master thieves that were committing their epic heist at that moment. They were tasked with stealing as much as they could at the moment as they roamed the virtual art museum. 
Those in the curious— or interrogative—group were told something completely different and asked by the researchers to pretend they were walking the halls of the virtual museum in order to plan a future heist. 

pundit
kiosk

strenuously
slur
meted out

splay
display

not that I do evth at the 11th hour

Point of sale

Fertilize
Agronomy

abstruse

cumbersome
encumbered

restorative justice

Jaffle

Argmt: Spec ops ne necess > avg sold when in front line. Equiv to scouts.

necess sufice
suffuse

Argmt: Great reset will gain acceptance cos most ppl in debt.

Ne a consp thy if the bad guys telling what will do.

patina
tarnish
verdigris

palanquin
rickshaw

Argmt: whatever do try best. Arete. Ctrex. Relaxing walk. Defeats purpose if try excel.

aim 4 a get b

Pron: rowter or rooter (router)

Elie Wiesel

grand larceny
Rikers Island

a 'catfishing' hoax

accrue

scathing

boondoggle
Boondocks etymol

Pron Tintagel
	Septuagint

warrant warranty

Rome fertility crisis Augustus
	list of censuses

Disney sorceror's apprentice analogy AI

inept
aptitude

hoodwinked

rehash

averred

avowed

Zimmyat?
Dhimmitude

Psychology (& Sci) crisis of repeatability

Muhammad come 2 mountain or vice versa?

Wormhole

Museum (etymol) fossils all plastercasts?

vacillated

swiss battle woodcut achv

decal

necessary evil
alleviate
alluvial
divulge

ambrosia
nectar
dewlap dewflap
adamantite
adamant
adam ant

curds
whey
thresh
lintel

Bollinger
Mumms?
Veuve Cliquot?]
Moet et Chandon

Cab Sav
Spag Bol
Chrissy
Rellies
AB's
GOAT

quarantine etymol

deemed
redeem

common pron errors
	ec cetera

ideation

modality
modulated vox

nodule
node
nodality?

nomenclature
clade

secrete secret

nictating
even toed ungulate

Beacon

scuppered
SCUTTLE

perplex

coalesce

caterwaul

Cheetahs in India?

cloacal kiss
alimentary canal?

Mises institute
think tank

etymol coalesce

encomium
saunter

disabuse

pavilion

inculcate

Aphelion
Perihelion

behest

Lest

patchwork
reprieve

vitiate

disheveled

wages vs salary salt
usury
mite lepton

aghast

peregrination
reginald perrin

Schliffen plan

LIDAR
LASER
MASER

cajole

Mongol religion Animism->Nestorian Heresy->Islam?
	Mughal India?
Samarkand Ivan Terrible sack?

Jk: Advanced jiggery pokery

German lyric poet and radical political thinker Heinrich Heine
heiney ass

 Ludwig II who became the king of Bavaria at 19 and even proposed to Elisabeth’s younger sister in 1867, though he called it off some months later—likely because he was suspected to be gay. He was deposed by a government-led coup d'état after bankrupting Bavaria with his grandiose castles, and died on June 13, 1886, by drowning.

cold calling
cold reading

Ru 16C? cossacks save city from siege then sack
Woodcut 15c? swiss achv wn after battle

thwart
athwart

hindsight 20/20

freebooter
appalled
austere

intelligentsia

atavistic

veneer

Paraphrasing

There is always someone ready to degrade an argument with race.

That’s a utter load of bullshit only a brainwashed minion would ever repeat.
Are you? Come on, you are too hard on yourself.

commuted

provost marshal

A private jet owned by Wagner paramilitary group chief Yevgeny Prigozhin has crashed northwest of Moscow. Ten passengers were killed in the incident, and it is believed the mercenary boss was on board the plane.

precarious

the bottom line

diverge
divulge

Dolly the sheep cloned?
Spider goat?
Antifreeze cabbage?
chimp head alive
cryogenics
deep blue
	penrose
stem cells

coefficient

Linux 1991

encomium
1609 Galileo Telescope
1900 Nietsche dies

zeitgeist

pique
frisson
titillate

lethargic

After demolishing Wales and New Zealand over the last fortnight, no side is in such August form.

 The All Blacks wisely pulled Whitelock after 10 in the second stanza.

spate

etymol exuberant

Argmt: Science, eh. It's never wrong until it is.

resounding

E Gad
Dounds

Antechamber

etymol platitude platypus platinum

etymol abide

aglo saxon vs latin wds in eng

Mondial
Mondrian
Cezanne

acueil

belated
belay

rappel
abseil

Sir Michael Parkinson
WAtergate

succulents

blue moon
red moon
big moon

mirage
oasis
wadi
maghreb
sahara wind name
mistral et al

exuberant incompetence of rock n roll

poem meek cheek

bevel
bs relief
terra cotta
wattle daub
thatch
wage salary
straw hay

dromedary
bactrian

Argmt:
	Hi IQ->Nobel sly Hi coord->gold medal. Non sequitor?]

squandered

drastic

etymol plastic
how plastic made?
BPA
Mh Arsenic

back in the fold
crozier
mitre
cathedra?

browbeating

casualty
fatality
casuistry

another healthy dose of force-fed adversity

The Huns were often depicted as naked savages in European art, when in fact they invented trousers—a much easier form of clothing for horse riding!

homestead

barding

cicada
daddy longlegs
grasshopper
katydid

epub what katy did
little wn
anne of green gables
pipi longstocking
pollyanna
little house prarie

A Roman envoy named Priscus was sent to visit the encampment of Attila the Hun to carry out negotiations. He reported an opulent and civilized banquet where all the guests ate from silver plates and drank from golden goblets. They were all greeted with respect, and there were no signs of barbarity.

sprawl

The Dominus Julius Mosaic is one of the best-known examples of Vandal artwork.

lavish

lascaux
altamira

The Vandals loved poetry, and the well-known poet Felix wrote a series of poems about the beauty of the baths. His poems were inscribed on the walls of the bath houses in mosaics to enhance the experience of the bathers.

opulent

vilify

spurt
squirt

partial rhyme

Jk 1 pun in 10 did
wingdings? 6 feet under

John Hurt was known as "Ollivander"

mother of pearl

1liner: go forth & conquer

Jk: comms have been a little less than magnificent

Munificent

economies of scale
quirk

spate
speyed

prerogative

boomfa
da da da Dum

fiscal hole

Baz Luhmann's

ouroboros

ostensible

opulent

the Anatolian steppe

L. L. Foreman's novel, The Renegade, first published in 1949

munificent
magnificat

chief seattle speech
iwo jima photo

the world's most visited museum, the Louvre, the City of Light

a capella
fresco
al fresco

psychopath vs sociopath
commie vs socialist

risqué

do public payphones still exist?

nonchalant 

excursion
furore

rebuff

calumny
defamation
slander
libel

sedition
treason

etymol truancy
wag
hookey

roofie
mickey finn
spike

Hato Hone St John

pinnacle
pinnace

Mar a Lago

emulate
jk emu late

Argmt: c19vax: Sly car seatbelts required save driver me mobility scooter ne belt. Cos them ne need 4 save self. N belt on them ne save car driver.
	vx stats placebo effect

wandervogel

nimbus

marina
rotunda
gazebo

whale lice

censured

Argmt: Modernist error: AND not OR
	chv AND charity
	not OR

Argmt: Cold as charity. Good thing. Impartial

Chakra

1liner: it gets ev1, J. It's not just y

politics of envy. divide and conquer
max kolbe
pastor niermoller?
Many rooms in my fathers house me ne trads

Route 501, an advocacy group for returnees

MLB, NFL, NBA, or NHL
MLB?
	baseball?

basketball is the seventh most popular sport in the world, with over 450 million players

how many countries host NBA?
	29 teams usa 1 canada
penitentiary vs prison vs gaol vs jail vs borstal

swap meet

cold cocked

pragmatic pragma

purloin

Marvin minsky?

“Prior to any of the Chasers going on set, the Chase production team put us through our paces to warm us up by asking 20 minutes of quiz questions,” he shares.

prince will a player?

premonition

chancellor
Exchequor

kismet

7-10 = -3
sybaritic

Legalese

sothebys
harrods
Christies
de beers
faberge

audrey hepburn vs cath hepburn

aegrotat

Burgeoning

comedy of manners
of baras/awkwardness (the office)

incubation
intubation

salubrious
salary

gallantry and intrepidity

insider trading and wire fraud

lapel

evince
mincing
mince wrods
sashay
kleptocracy
mealy mouthed

Michael Ware's documentary Only The Dead

VC revocations
famous medal revocations?
sainthood revocations

lurid

stucco
terra cotta
bas relief

schlomo
schmoltz

expunge

expound

panache

elan

riffle

stymied

tine

contraindicated

sterling

interstitial
diffraction
lattice

bi-implication

hearking back to

surly

advisor
adviser

terse

viceroy
vicar
vicarious

bequest
request
inquest
question
inkwell

restive

friskier

maximalist

a "coup in Maidan,"
there was a coup... start looking at facts, not what the twisted narrative from the western media. Yanukovitch was deposed illegally, and a puppet government was installed.

duress

permeated

permanganate

jabberwocky
hunting of the snark

consensus

interlocutor
speaks in good faith.

whrmonger

plausible

kaliningrad


	Please use the sharing tools found via the share button at the top or side of articles. Copying articles to share with others is a breach of FT.com T&Cs and Copyright Policy. Email licensing@ft.com to buy additional rights. Subscribers may share up to 10 or 20 articles per month using the gift article service. More information can be found at https://www.ft.com/tour.
	https://www.ft.com/content/be5d133b-e757-4615-881f-256337f05b6c

	this lazy conspiracy theory is walked out in these comment sections.
It simply doesn’t hold up against closer inspection that leaders across the west are marshaling materiel and funds and substantially altering long established conventions at the cost of enormous political will all to benefit the arms sector. Unless you are the type who truly believes a small cabal pulls all the strings on the world stage, I don’t think this theory can possibly hold water.

That is all to say nothing of the true winners in the energy sector. Would you rather be in the sector which can suddenly sell its outputs at a phenomenally higher price with no change in cost of product, or one which must invest heavily to build new capacity that may not operate at an efficient level of output in a few years time?

Recommend
1

Reply

Share

Report

Inversnaid
1 WEEK AGO

 
In reply to ClearTheAir
Well yes, I am inclined to believe that the armaments lobby has an outsize influence. For example the Eastern Partnership project, which determined the EU's strategy in Ukraine and the other former Soviet Republics, was co-founded by Carl Bildt who is also a board member of Rand Corporation, the primary US defence lobbyist.


dithering

diptheria

moral imperative

Prigozhin

Reagan negotiated an end to the Cold War with Gorbachev despite calling the Soviet Union an “evil empire”.

Reagan significantly increased US defence spending and launched the Strategic Defence Initiative, AKA Star Wars.

ICBMs


	Please use the sharing tools found via the share button at the top or side of articles. Copying articles to share with others is a breach of FT.com T&Cs and Copyright Policy. Email licensing@ft.com to buy additional rights. Subscribers may share up to 10 or 20 articles per month using the gift article service. More information can be found at https://www.ft.com/tour.
	https://www.ft.com/content/be5d133b-e757-4615-881f-256337f05b6c

	Difficult to see how NATO would ever engage any adversary with ICBMs. The calculus suggests that the boss (USA) would never risk any cost whatsoever on it's homeland. MAD rather assumes the powers which hold ICBMs all connect at a diplomatic level continuously and manage relationships.
Ambassadors trash-talking on media or walking out of debates is a no-win scenario.


	Please use the sharing tools found via the share button at the top or side of articles. Copying articles to share with others is a breach of FT.com T&Cs and Copyright Policy. Email licensing@ft.com to buy additional rights. Subscribers may share up to 10 or 20 articles per month using the gift article service. More information can be found at https://www.ft.com/tour.
	https://www.ft.com/content/be5d133b-e757-4615-881f-256337f05b6c

	Ukraine can likely force NATO engagement, especially given the amount of programming that NATO citizens have had concerning their alignment with Ukraine. US may threaten this and that, but Zelensky can appeal directly to NATO citizens and bypass the ruling classes to create a sociological storm on a worldwide scale, given the platform that has been developed for him to date.

Senile Citizen.
1 WEEK AGO

 
In reply to Daniel
Public opinion may demand it, given that it is a "good" vs "evil" situation.
 
In reply to Senile Citizen.

slobbers


	Please use the sharing tools found via the share button at the top or side of articles. Copying articles to share with others is a breach of FT.com T&Cs and Copyright Policy. Email licensing@ft.com to buy additional rights. Subscribers may share up to 10 or 20 articles per month using the gift article service. More information can be found at https://www.ft.com/tour.
	https://www.ft.com/content/be5d133b-e757-4615-881f-256337f05b6c

	In the 1980's the Afghans (Islamic fundamentalists) were armed along with Saudis such as Bin Laden to fight the USSR.
That may have contributed to the collapse of the Soviet Union, but the consequences were a rise in Islamic terrorism.
Now the same strategy has been used in Ukraine.
The Maiden coup armed neo-Nazis to ethnically cleanse the Donbas.
The war started in 2014 & most of those killed before February 2022 were Russian speakers.
Another target has always been taking Sevastopol & therefore US control of the Black Sea.
2022 was going to be an attempt to capture Crimea & cleanse it of Russian speakers.
Putin's invasion was the response.
Tens of thousands have now perished.
Nord Stream is no more & Germany & the wider EU must buy more expensive gas for the Middle East in $'s.
And by taking Russia's $ reserves Biden has done more than Trump in undermining the $'s future as 'world money'.
Now we risk WWIII.
Is Trump going to be the peace candidate & save us from nuclear Armageddon?

gibberish

As we sleep-walk into WWIII.


	Please use the sharing tools found via the share button at the top or side of articles. Copying articles to share with others is a breach of FT.com T&Cs and Copyright Policy. Email licensing@ft.com to buy additional rights. Subscribers may share up to 10 or 20 articles per month using the gift article service. More information can be found at https://www.ft.com/tour.
	https://www.ft.com/content/be5d133b-e757-4615-881f-256337f05b6c

	A "coup" is an armed overthrow of a government. The Maidan protests were completely peaceful until November 30, 2013, when Putin's puppet Yanukovych sent his police and Berkut to violently beat the protesters. No violence was ever reported at the protests until then. And after that, Yanukovych was voted out of office by Ukraine's parliament. Therefore, you lie--there was no "coup."

Putin started the war in 2014, so all those who were murdered in the war were Putin's murder victims; he did this. His was the ethnic cleansing in Donbas; he started the war there.

Trump is Putin's puppet, so all he'll do is destroy our help for Ukraine. But that won't bring "peace"--we never armed Ukraine seriously from 2014 through February 2022, including during the Trump years, and Putin mass-murdered Ukrainians and kept warmongering that whole time. So no, Putin's puppet Trump won't bring "peace."

Also, the nuclear threats are ridiculous. Putin's terrified of his own death, and he cowers behind a 30-foot table in fear of COVID death. So he's hardly going to commit suicide and die the same day by starting any nuclear war. Nice try.

keep calm & carry on

better to release temper or ctrol it?

Neocons

armchair generals
Bathtub admirals
Airforce?

Eudaimon

If only Ukraine had stayed neutral like Austria we wouldn't have slav conscripts fighting slav conscripts,all because NATO got greedy in it's push east in 2008




	Please use the sharing tools found via the share button at the top or side of articles. Copying articles to share with others is a breach of FT.com T&Cs and Copyright Policy. Email licensing@ft.com to buy additional rights. Subscribers may share up to 10 or 20 articles per month using the gift article service. More information can be found at https://www.ft.com/tour.
	https://www.ft.com/content/be5d133b-e757-4615-881f-256337f05b6c

	It is Russia which controls or absorbs nations or regions which fall under its sphere of domination.

NATO does not exploit it's members, all join freely and are free to leave and free to control NATO activities and weapons on its territory. Nations with experience of Russian domination have chosen with few exceptions to seek the NATO security guarantee.

What you mean is NATO has denied Russia the chance to satisfy its greed for territory, empire and people to dominate.


go west young man





	Austrian has "stayed neutral" because of a binding treaty it has with Russia.
The Red Army only left Austria in 1956 on the condition that Austria remained neutral.
Similarly with the posting of NATO forces in the former DDR.
Not permitted.


Wars sometimes start easily, but it is a tenet of strategy that they are always unpredictable and extremely hard to end.


ouster

cluster-munitions
vacuum-weapons
depleted uranium
thermobaric bombs
daisy cutter

fetters
shackle

the Warsaw Pact

deadlocked

hobble

skeleton crew

a 1989 redux

assail
wassail

foreclose

backsliding
Backfill
backburner
afterburner

Elgin marbles
Sphinx nose

St Thra avila peccat 4 some me ne oths

brouhaha
barney

linchpin

Dicastery

Siddharth
Gautema

Didymo
Old Man's Beard

The storied veteran admitted he struggled with the pace of the game

Tuilleries?]

Banal
Bland (ne used 2 mean bad)
vanilla

Situational layer cake

instill
distill

ply with
plywood
imply

Stats A/B test

schmaltz
excessive sentimentality, especially in music or films
Let There Be Rock

1st rock song 1955?

Transnistria

Dilettante
Manque

remand

Heaven all cups full, some bigger.

codec

sporadic
soporific

Computers are incredibly fast, accurate, and stupid. Human beings are incredibly slow, inaccurate, and brilliant. Together they are powerful beyond imagination.
- Albert Einstein -

Exfiltrate

conurbation

castigate
instigate

flagship

angst

up the ante

take umbrage at

imbroglio

[sic]
ibid

race-baiting
The black stump
crook as 40 bstrds
histings
party whip
house speaker
caucus

artifice
ars technica
superficial
superfluous

vetting
veterinarian

most econ $ from small business. Delc post c19?

Etched on New York's iconic Statue of Liberty are the words, "Give me your tired, your poor, your huddled masses yearning to breathe free".
etched
scarce

Rosa Parks ne 1st
Henrietta Lacks
Marcus Garvey
Booker T Washington
MLK
Mandela
Malcolm X
Hoagie?] Carmichael
M Ali
Jesse Jackson
Al Sharpton
Names kids killed alabama chch bombing

Ouranos iff give up illicit amore

Rebus

virulent
etymol Mossad

Nis
Origin:Hebrew
Other Origin(s):Danish, Greek
Meaning:To test; Sign; Victory of the people
Nis is a gender-neutral name of mainly Hebrew origin, and although it may seem pint-sized, it still packs a punch! In Hebrew, the name Nis means “to test.” It’s also said to be borrowed from the Hebrew name Nissa, which translates to “sign.” Expecting parents can delight in its Danish roots, too, as it may come from the name Nils, short for Nicholas, meaning “victory of the people” in Greek. Whichever meaning makes a mark on your little one, let Nis be their sign that greatness awaits.

gave short shrift to
cahoots

white noise

grey water

how accurate opinion polls

laughing gas

Ahmed Zoui
Kim Dot Com

Invigilate

Charter schools
Rife with

Fall on one's sword

Buoy Buoyancy

Bathyscaphe?] etymol

steal so thunder
Deus ex Machina

stupefy
stultify
stentorian

triumphalist

mink
ermine
ocelot
musk deer
	rat

faux pas

Boffin
Buffoon
Puffin

dereliction

approbation

infuse
defuse
suffuse

palests ne want be amerindians

putative
Rapprochement
Parker Schnabel

influence of barroom bard on lang & culture

prurient
Lecherous
Lascivious
Leery

Altamira
Lascaux

Consumption
Apoplexy
Pox

Leeward

Siddharth vs Gautema?

supplication
replicating
duplicate
duplex
suplex
flexible
flux

death knell
predicament

chided
chastise

amortization
arbitrage
depreciation

intrepid

mountaining the molehill
moleskin
catastrophising
apostrophe
strobe

inveterate

invertebrate

parsimony
simony
spendthrift
frugal
short shrift
scrivener
shriver
alimony
palimony
patrimony
matrimony
nubile
nuptials

clinch

Chervil

functionary

Hansard

boon

favour the type of democracy where two wolves and one sheep get to vote on what to have for dinner.

hist of referendums/a

disparage
stigmatise
astigmatic

Marion Du Fresne

perihelion
precession equinoxes

etymol criterion
cyrillon?]

Lou Gherig?] ALS acronym for?

cassandra
hectoring

Lowing
Bark
Miaow
Mewling

The Black watch
Black Douglas

augment
Augur
Inaugural

Roman navy throw chickes in sea
	Casear faked omens

Boilerplate code

Ouranos ev1 full me some > capacity

Many rooms in pater maison?

Argmt ww1 generls ne tards
	historian reputation made via iconoc/klasm?]
Boer war could buy commission
Amerinds rode horses to death then ate em. Helped beat USA

Tim Minchin Oz comedian

soccer players mostly not tall?

faze

bandwagon
soapbox

sanity check

Enneagram

neurodivergent 
ADHD, PTSD and dysregulated emotions

Ravel Carmen? Bizet

acumen

Carmel Sepuloni

endocrine diabetes?
Justice of the Peace?

shoe-horned
dross

attritional

incentivising

Virgin airlines branson

Italy iterative cockney

Diwali
Yom Kippur

origin sikh

either vs neither

stack exchange vs stack overflow

Pleasantries small talk?

Lisp

roach

cognizant

house speaker

A couple eggs
A couple of eggs

Snodgrass
epub CPSnow

PEDIGREE

tenure
plaudits

taffeta
bunting
crinoline
crepe

duty of care

ask chatgpt same q mult times diff ans then converges when realises its same q

if use chatgpt to generate code then void y copy(w)right

etymol
	repercussion
	mimesis
	mitigte
	nictate

Simon Sinek Paris island boot camp marines
	san diego west coast
	quantico virginia officers

Ted Talk
	who is Ted?

Etymol man who ne wants the job (leader) is best candidate

management diff to leadership
leaders born or made?

1st in best dressed
silence denote consent/assent
Age b4 beauty
aged beef or booty
buggs de leaf

Aspirationalism

stalwart

wry

zeitgeist

Project blue book tv
democrat blue
the blues
blue distance
blue sad
the yellow book
yellow peril
old yellow
yellow journalism
the green man
gawain green knight
greed card
green envy
movie the green book
the green mile movie
greenthumb
redfaced
red fox
redneck
in the red
republican red
labour red
cricket ball red
red hugh o'donnell
rory
rose red
pinko
pink & white terraces
blush
tickle pink
All Blacks
in the black
blackhearted
black prince
lampblack
black tulip
white feather
tennis whites
cricket whites
lily livered
white knuckle
egg white
whites of eyes
album
snow white
purple prose
royal purple
orange lodge, parade
wine dark sea
grey wolf
greystoke
silver fox
grey cloud rain
slate grey
stone grey
Brownstone
John Brown's body
leather brown
earth brown

Albanian @ottoman hero medieval


propensity

nadir

take the moral high ground

it broke the fourth wall 

https://www.msn.com/en-nz/sports/other/ian-foster-s-all-blacks-how-it-all-stacks-up/ar-AA1j3xWm?ocid=entnewsntp&pc=HCTS&cvid=3e5a3c0d8b414a3aa1fecf2c8d8233d6&ei=19
vorciferous
It's hard to think of a time in the modern era when the New Zealand public felt this disinterested in the All Blacks as a performance unit as opposed to the coaching situation, something which Foster has to carry the can for a bit. While the build-up to the World Cup final was something the New Zealand public bought into, it took until well into the tournament for that level of interest to emerge. Foster's inability to embrace the wider persona of the most important job in New Zealand sport stands in stark contrast to his predecessor Steve Hansen, who understood that he needed to be the personality and salesman of not just the team, but NZ Rugby as a whole.

the gift that just keeps on giving

Enjoy!

TV:
Quatermass and the Pit
Space: 1999

A bridge too far
Burning bridges

Larry Niven's 1980 short story The Green Marauder

RC: Formation
	Character?

On April 26, 1986, the number 4 reactor at the Chernobyl Nuclear Power Plant in Northern Ukraine exploded.
	death cunt. Short & long term

When the turd touches the turbine
https://www.wordhippo.com/what-is/another-word-for/fan.html
Noun▲
An apparatus with rotating blades that creates a current of air for cooling or ventilation
aerator ventilator blower flabellum punkah thermantidote air cooler air conditioner air purifier air freshener
“There was no central air, so when it was hot, we had to fight over who was going to sit directly in front of the fan to cool off.”
Noun▲
A mechanical device with evenly-shaped blades that turn on a shaft to push against air or water
propeller propulsor rotor screw vane airscrew fin fan engine oar prop paddle driver blade airfoil flat rudder sail stabilizerUS stabiliserUK
“Berild's grin widened, but his words were cut off as the boat's fan roared to life.”
Noun▲
One who uses obsequious compliments to gain self-serving favor or advantage from another
lackey fawner bootlicker flatterer sycophant lickspittle toady flunkey flunky doormat backscratcher kowtower backslapper truckler brownnoser groveller minion crawler puppet creep groupie parasite spaniel groveler adulator leech cringer slave sponger toadeater handshaker suck-up yes-man hanger-on apple-polisher brown-nose yes man arse-kisser obsequious person Uriah Heep brown-noser apple polisher lap dog brown noser suck up
Freshly squeezed vs grade A coprolite
Coprolite street London

Barry Soper

Votary
Notary

dribs & drabs

Project Euler

pate (Skull?)

the natural nuclear reactors at Oklo, Gabon, which were active around two billion years ago. 

Rimbaud Verlain

castigate
doubled down

Irremediable

one fell swoop?

Led by workhorse flanker Pieter-Steph du Toit, who famously made 28 tackles in the final, the Springboks showed that it’s clearly not always attack that wins big matches.

pundit

bill of rights

politics crossbenches

construe

precariously
imprecate
penultimte etymol. penumbra?

vaporware
bloatware
vanityware
wetware

myriad

Evan
Van
Vanguard
Vanquish

Renqvist?]

In Russian stalemate = tupik.

connotation
resolute

gambit
bamboozle

fulsome
Precipitation precipice precipitate

Dr Spock

A low EQ bully is aggressive.
A high EQ bully is passive aggressive.

Cyprian

helicopter manager
	parent
mutually exclusive

micromanager

Hexaco.org
	Big 5

blithe

Spell license licence

Mandala
Chakra
QUi
Quigong
Tao
Dao
Yin Yang
Koan
Ohmmm

PSI Air Pressure
Imperial units
Qn anne?
Avoir Dupois

Qarith Alg F <-> Celsius (etymol)
decibel etymol

APAC

this friday
next friday
friday week

haven't y? y or no?

desargues?
arbitrage

elegy
effigy
epitaph

swelter
swindle

malady
percolating

tepid
lukewarm etymol

kosher
halal
et al?

symptoms
malign

nous

Polybius

some but not all

Waiheke Island

ordeal
ordure

Ersatz

gerundive
ablative absolute

succinct
precinct

montage
collage
decoupe
tromp loiel

TV's:
Plasma
LED
QLED
LCD

gamut
gamla mediev music notation

directive
prime directive star trek

trellis
gazebo
picket fence

trinny & savannah

conscious/unconscious bias

Active listening
	paraphrase back 2 ppl

repeat last few wds back & rais tone (Questioning) draws info out wo asking/seem attacking
	SC tries it?

nigh on

SMART goals
	Specific
	Measurable
	
	
	Time bound

Synergy

powwow

impending doom

pendulum

mixed messages
mixed media

Antigone
Euripides
Eumenedes

Stodgy

earmark

Quiesce




https://www.msn.com/en-nz/news/national/peters-makes-false-claim-govt-bribed-media-just-after-becoming-deputy-pm/ar-AA1kzHMT?ocid=entnewsntp&pc=HCTS&cvid=0a92acc91d404beeae40deb4200e5202&ei=11
the Government had bribed the media through the public interest journalism fund. "You cannot defend $55 million of bribery. You cannot defend $55 million of bribery. Get it very clear," said Peters.

Normies

lurch

lucrative lucre

Public Interest Journalism Fund (PIJF)  NZ
	$55million

Trope

The Wall Street Journal

snub

swirl

skirl bagpipes
keening
carrigeen

Elgin marbles
Sphinx nose
Parthenon (etymol sly acropolis) roof
Fakes in art
Stolen antiquities iraq, angkor wat?]
Vandalism iraq

Treasury force govt dept sign away IP
D: penalty clauses illegal
	best practice bs

nous

yoyo dieting

geomancy

Peak woke

to gleefully rub the faces of the haters in a big pile of steaming Woke. 
Wild Blue Yonder
Blue mountains

running joke
1666 when the Tardis crash lands into the tree under which Newton had just had the apple drop on his head

toddle off to
hot toddy
toddler
etymol name Todd
deadpans
disdain
running joke

chapps
chapparal
butte
mesa

freewheeling
nod-and-a-wink
	wank
devil-may-care

spoiler alert

Patient Zero

methinks

patois

Soho
Saville Row

screeds

quell

Helping launch an Irish renaissance - which was followed by the country’s economically buoyant Celtic Tiger period from the mid-1990s

sesquintennial 1990 nz

second guessing
double take
category error
parallax
math fenceposting

JN Chem eq want it ez phobos spaghetti-mud
	phobos complexity ne able mn that

doublet
shift
smock

effect vs affect

spell licence license
centre center
meter metre?
tire tyre

Homonym
Antonym
Synonym
Phoneme
Phonics

Stethoscope inventor, year

Forfeit

Vertica
Geofence

belated

forensics

injunction


cringeworthy
Heartbreaking news emerge of Bruce Willis' health
Media Minister Melissa Lee

hegemony

soundly
roundly

full steam ahead
lets get ready to rumble
gentlemen start your engines
wilhelm scream
Alan Smithee

checkered flag
bollinger

hiatus
scion
norns
incumbent
doldrums
sargasso

suppurating


decimation
hypocaust
atrium

SMS Blücher

Engine
2 stroke
4 stroke
Wankel
	et al
effiency 20% good?

Slope of world's steepest street?

concommittant

expressly told him not to
followed the instrunctions to a tee

penchant

“Who am I, Tom Hanks?” the actor jokingly referenced the Oscar winner’s penchant for typewriters. “

sabbatical

Faroe Islands - an archipelago in the North Atlantic once dubbed the thinking man’s Iceland

pinnacle

in difficult times, people seek change and hope
	or do they look to stability?

Jury duty, injury w intent
	rage vs plan

clutch play (At straws)
breeches doth combusteth

Apostolate

reimburse
bursar
bursary
purse
sow's ear silk


How The Leopard Got His Spots: Kipling classic

Pennies From Heaven
Silver Lining

Yuletide

elfin and puckish

insouciant

Clangor

Pavilion
the far pavilions?] epub

Bland ne necess bad
blandishments
sweetmeats

augment
augur
august
gust

syncopation
patois
cant

Consultant
	jk borrow watch charge time
	30 sec ahead client

vert horiz monopoly cartel robber barons antitrust legislation

There was a pukana and plenty of tikanga Māori

conversion therapy

lambasted the NHS for using terms such as “chest feeders” instead of “women”.

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Agroup of British scientists have photographed and filmed the world's largest iceberg, A23a, after it began to move again after almost four decades stuck to the ocean floor.

A23a made global headlines in late November (2023) when it moved out of the Weddell Sea sector into the Southern Ocean - the first time it had budged in 37 years. It calved from the Filchner Ice Shelf in 1986, before being grounded on the seabed nearby.

Covering an expansive area of almost 4,000 sq km (1,500 sq miles), it is double the size of Greater London. A23a is not only impressive in width; its thickness is a formidable 400m (1,312 ft).

To put this in perspective, Europe's tallest skyscraper, the Shard, stands at a mere 310m. Scientists aboard the RRS Sir David Attenborough reached the mega-berg at the start of December - photographing the majestic block of ice. They also collected samples of seawater around A23a.
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Gk prepositions:
Paramount

parasol

----------------------

Siddharth
Gautema

on the wrong side of history

due diligence
duty of care

Moral courage

Rub of the green
golf usa masters green jacket
tour de france yellow jersey

feat
feature

counterfeit

homonym

July 20, 1969, was without a doubt a monumental moment in human history–the landing of the first human beings on the surface of the Moon. In 1972, the final mission of NASA's Apollo program touched down on the lunar surface.

Norman Finkelstein
Anthony Blinkin

become habituated to them
double-booked
understudy
some tickets to a gig with a plus one

Sun city south africa

war chest

petulant
Petal
Petula Clark

crowdsourcing
crowdfunding
flashmob

instigate
stig of the dump

etymol actuary
francis galton
francis crick

The watchdog report highlights inconsistent definitions of the "need to know" concept, where sensitive classified information is accessible to individuals with a top security clearance, like Teixeira, even though he did not have reason to access that information for his job in IT.

fealty

beholden

Buffoon
Poltroon
nincompoop

Newsweek
Time
Life
NY Times

unabashed

doxxing
SWAT

a cease and desist letter

Acclaimed writer, Shelby Steele, has long argued that systemic racism is more a strategy than a truth, and that the universal oppression of black Americans is largely over with.

schoolmarm
infraction

fracking

Imprimatur
Klaxon

demurs

thrall

Huckabee
Alex Jones

Qanon

the idea of white privilege is nothing more than a modern-day version of the white man’s burden, the racist 19th-century idea that white people had a collective responsibility to educate and modernize the black people who lived in their colonies

Estuary
Tributary
Watershed
Seachange
Tidal Bore
Firth
	Forth
		Highlands boundary?

List of highlands
	scot
	ethiopia
	central massic
	et al?

Chick-fil-A

Hate speech
Hate crime

Vindicate
Vindictive
Veridical?

Glencoe massacre

Origin horns hand symbol pinkie index
	the fingers archers 100y war
	thumb up/down
		gladiator to belly
	Judas Priest hx leathers

Shelby Spong

reprehensible

Edify

Contrition
Trite
Shrive
Scrivener

Lackadaisical
Kerfuffle

Valency
Covalent
Ambivalent
Dissimulate
Dissolute

Mendacious
Mendicant
Peripatetic
Academy
Lyceum

Clickbait

Coxcomb

swain
wainright
Copyright?]
Hay wain Constable

Justice & Charity blind
	should be

Magnificat

Munificent
Magnanimous
	Minanimus
Grandiloquent
eloquent
loquacious

supernumerary

intractable

Islamic State (Daesh)
ISIS
ISIL

Boondocks
Boardwalk
Bleachers
Cleats
Loam
On the Lam
Withers
Tack

Tim Ferriss, Tools of Titans

it is important to consider the counter-factual scenario of how this all would have played out if

Nasdaq
Dow Jones
Nikei?]

Sod's law

QUIZ:
www stands for				World Wide Web
Largest State by area			alaska
Largest organ in the human body		skin
1st US President live in whitehouse	John Adams
First US State				Delaware
Loudest animal in the world		Sperm Whale
Largest bone in body			Femur
Largest muscle?				

pertinent

disgruntled

lurid
scathing
bathyscaphe?]

Never buy bleeding edge
	be 2nd. Let 1st make the mistakes & get the xp 4 y

shtick

surreptitious

Conglomerate

Atrium

if its within coee

mythical man month
mythical phase 2 of project

Affluenza

Tawdry
Tawny

Domino theory commie valid?
	Putin ne

Illusions
	optical
	aural
	oth senses?
	kinesthetic?
	referred pain/ghost limb
	cognitive

Fascism:
	Several countries in Europe embraced fascism during the 1930s. Engelbert Dollfuss, who served as Chancellor of Austria between 1932 and 1934, was the de facto leader of the right-wing Fatherland Front.
	In Portugal, the rise to power by António de Oliveira Salazar saw the country fall under an authoritarian rule of a Ditadura Nacional (National Dictatorship), a regime later reframed as the Estado Novo (New State).
		Salazar presided over a corporatist dictatorship that ruled Portugal from 1933 until 1974. Opposed to communism, socialism, syndicalism, and liberalism, Salazar's rule was conservative, corporatist, and nationalist in nature. But he distanced himself from fascism and Nazism.
	It was in Portugal's neighbor, Spain, where fascism enjoyed a greater toehold. The Falange (Phalanx) was founded in 1933 by José Antonio Primo de Rivera. The organization generated a membership much of which was later absorbed into the military dictatorship of General Francisco Franco.
	In France, the Croix-de-Feu (Cross of Fire) was a nationalist French league of the interwar period, led by Colonel François de La Rocque.
		The Croix-de-Feu was one of the right-wing groups that encouraged anti-Semitic politics in 1935. After the fall of France in 1940, a number of French fascists served in the Vichy regime of Marshal Philippe Pétain.
	Fascism reared its ugly head in Great Britain under the leadership of Sir Oswald Mosely. A former politician, Mosely founded and led the British Union of Fascists (BUF).
	Across the Atlantic, meanwhile, the Black Legion, a violent offshoot of the Ku Klux Klan, sought to establish fascism in the United States by launching a revolution. Implicated in numerous murders, the Black Legion was disbanded in 1945. The photograph shows Detroit police officers posing with weapons and regalia seized from Black Legion terrorists.
	Established in 1936, the German American Bund recruited into its ranks only American citizens of German descent. Its main goal was to promote a favorable view of Nazi Germany. Pictured is a parade by German American Bund members in New York City in October 1937.
	Elements of fascism took hold in various countries in South America, most notably in Argentina during what became known as the Infamous Decade. The four presidents of the country during this period, José Félix Uriburu (pictured), Agustín Pedro Justo, Roberto María Ortiz, and Ramón Castillo, were all embroiled in the persecution of political opponents, electoral fraud, and other political and economic scandals.
	What is the nature of fascism?
©Getty Images 
Common characteristics of fascism include the absolute power of the state. A fascist state seeks total control over all major parts of society.
	A single dictator wields supreme power over a fascist state. Typically, this leader will use their charisma and a magnetic personality to win over the people. And they are very often skilled orators.
	Corporatism is one of the basic tenets of fascism. A fascist state advocates the collective management of the economy by controlling labor. Strikes and other employment disputes are outlawed.
	Fascist dictators adopt a policy of extreme nationalism to amplify national glory and draw on the fear of outside threats.
	The new society dictators create is based on the 'common will' of the people, a falsehood magnified by warped patriotic reference to historical myth rather than steered by fair, intellectual judgment. In a similar illustration, Mussolini is seen urging his private militia, the "Blackshirts," to follow him.
	The fascist creed is further demonstrated by the brutal suppression of dissent and the systematic persecution of minority groups.
	Fascists believe the state can survive only if it successfully proves its military superiority in war. Its "greatness" is achieved by conquering and ruling weak nations.
	Fascism emphasizes youth both in a physical sense of age and in a spiritual sense as related to virility and commitment to action. A strong sense of community or brotherhood is achieved at an early age: from 1936 to 1945 the Hitler Youth was the sole official boys' youth organization in Nazi Germany, and it was partially a paramilitary organization. The Italian Fascists' political anthem was called Giovinezza ("The Youth").
	In Italy, Mussolini perceived women's primary role as essentially child bearers. They were "reproducers of the nation." The Piccole Italiane (pictured) was an organization for girls within the National Fascist Party.
	Similarly, women in the Third Reich did not have a career outside the home. Their principal role was as a mother and wife. This doctrine was imbued at an early age through the League of German Girls, the girls' wing of the Nazi Party. Membership was compulsory.
	Today, far-right ideology includes significant elements of fascism. However, most modern fascist movements are without official political party representation or state power. Notable neo-fascist movements include the British National Party, established in 1982, and the Proud Boys, an exclusively male North American far-right neo-fascist organization founded in 2016.

How are the Proud Boys fascist?


Hutu
Tutsi

fellowships

vintage

Barry Soper

valedictory

Meech mexican knife gun

scowling

sequestered

expatriate vs migrant

forthright

supernumerary

KQL Kusto Query Lang. Synapse

hypervisor

The Young Turks
Angry young men
Ataturk

rumination

delineate

Mr Kalashniov invented AK 47?

the company was the first to undertake an IPO

beyond our ken
canny
payment in kind

Dalliance
Dering do

intrepid

A bridge too far

Labor day
Mayday

guardrails

laissez-faire

penchant

SAML
YAML

upshot

on the downlow
on the QT

QA

Break glass acct

Negative test. Tried access from where else n failed as should.

Tarpaulin
Gazebo
Bower
Shrubbery

on-this-day-in-1421-jan-%C5%BDi%C5%BEka-defeated-the-imperial-forces-at

Mount Pinatubo

Impropriey

Deacon
Dean

Fourier
Signal to noise ratio
Kronecker Delta
Eigenvalue

Benjamin Button
alter-ego

triggering so

rife

Malfeasance

surmise

lithe

Digital Twin

pamphleteer
yellow journalism
	peril
red terror

Can't have null key in dim model - SSAS
late arriving dim
	fact?
hist/persist layer SCD2 evth
	in curated/dimensional layer need where clause to filter for current rows only
snapshot fct tbl

floundering

delineation

Power BI at 600 users should move from pro to premium (breakeven point)

“Just One More Thing” — Columbo
	ctr. I don't see the need for that.
Just bear w me. Thats one unlucky ursine

Wimple
SpaceX

The deal’s aggressive terms appear in line with Trump’s well-documented negotiation tactics.
In The Art of the Deal, he writes: "I aim very high, and then I just keep pushing and pushing and pushing to get what I’m after."

Derek. End date give y the current record, that's correct. And there's also an iscurrent flag to put belts and braces on that

niceties

Coronal mass ejection

Co-opted
Pre-empted
innuendo
Swirling
Skiring
Sterling
twittersphere
flippant
Clickbait

Light speed limit proves we in sim

NZ Plunket

Filibuster
Privateer

Whale oil blog
Slobodan Milsovic?]

The study of how organisms decay and become fossilized, known as taphonomy
Taxonomy
Toupe
Topiary
Entomologisn
List of phobias

The nub of the issue is

Currently, Ginger’s basking in the success of The Wildhearts' 11th studio album, Satanic Rites of the Wildhearts, described by Classic Rock as "a glorious ode to the litany of wankers we all have to deal with every day and a reminder that life isn’t always the big overarching questions."
Sony's Hawk-Eye

Lynchpin
Cornerstone
Keystone

Purported
reportedly

Warrant Officer

Lambast
Peccadillo

Fecund
Feckless

Dr Kildare

firebrand

Mn tag
absolute zero, or -273.15°C
Kelvin
Calvin
Kelvinator

faux pas
ridicule

Rubric
Pantomime
Palanquin
Palimpsest
	
Ghastly

Hugo Boss

A collect call
Semi guesswork

Jk
Whoopsie hits whirligig
et al

Derek n the dominoes
Band names as mn tags

Nuance
mn tag
Shades of grey
	40
	green

Staple food
Exogenous
Endemic

green-eyed monster
Red devils
Blue devil
Green Lantern
Hulk

Bundestag
Dail
Knesset

unnerve
innervate
innerved?

Parse etymol

Ruby Ridge
Branch Davidian
Leonard Peltier

piqued the curiosity of

Seymore Hersh
diatribe

Sunset boulevard

Motif
Leitmotif

DeviantArt wraithdt
https://www.linkedin.com/pulse/battle-agincourt-miracle-dare-devilry-strategy-the-ajit-rao/
Battle Of Agincourt - Details & Progress Shots
	https://wraithdt.artstation.com/projects/Gd8J4
	Darren Tan
https://www.studio88.co.uk/acatalog/The_Battle_of_Agincourt.html


